Q: So thank you again for taking part in our interview. Uh, to begin with, please, can you describe, uh, briefly introduce yourself and describe what you do in your current position?
A: Okay. Great. Hi, everyone. Uh, my name is Farhad. Uh, my last name is Yuldashev. I am, uh, deputy Station manager of Uzbekistan Airways in the Russian Federation, based in Moscow. Uh, my, do I have to describe my position, what I have to do here?
Q: Uh, you can tell what to do in your position. What's your responsibility? Do you like it or not?
A: Okay, great. Uh, my position is, uh, actually we, uh, responsible for the, all the, uh, regular flights, uh, and, uh, charter flights, which operate to the Russian Federation. And, uh, actually we're responsible just for operating flights.
Q: Uh, can you tell me what you like…?
A: The technical, yeah, all the technical issues, all the, uh, any questions from passengers. We’re responsible <for it>
Q: What do you like about your position? What do you dislike about the work you have to do?
A: Uh, actually I like aviation. So, and, uh, to work overseas, it's, um, the best experience for all, I think for everyone. So in, in this case, for me, also, uh, but, uh, the difficulties is, uh, this is foreign country. This is not my native country, so that's why it's a little bit difficult to leave, uh, actually in another country, not in native country. And also for my family also. This is a difficulty. The, the biggest difficulty is this.
Q: It's kind of hard to get used to Moscow and its atmosphere, right?
A: Uh, sorry?
Q: It's kind of hard to get used to Moscow, Russia in its atmosphere, right?
A: Uh, a little bit, yeah. A little. Actually, it's not, uh, it's not pointed just in Russia, it's, uh, pointed overseas. Uzbekistan is native country. I'm as a fish <like a fish> in the sea in Uzbekistan. So that's why it's better to…, in Uzbekistan. But for experience, it's, uh, a good opportunity to work overseas. 
Q: I understand. So you say that it's a good opportunity to work overseas. Then, what do you think, for you, is the main motivation to do your job every day?
A: Uh, the main motivation <is> to improve my skills, to improve my, uh, working skills, uh, to get more experience. This motivates.
Q: So if you're talking about experience and improving skills, uh, then can you describe maybe how this job, the current work that you do, differs or how it is similar to the previous, uh, work and responsibilities you had?
A: Uh, probably, probably, uh, in Tashkent it was an office job. It means I just sit in one cabinet and, uh, there is no, how to explain, no, uh, connection with, uh, customers, with people. Uh, but in here, when you, uh, operate, uh, not operate, when you are responsible for the all the flights, uh, you have, an opportunity to speak with passengers, uh, with, uh, uh, staff of airport, uh, actually with, uh, crew members of, uh, airplane. So, and, uh, also technical issues of, uh, airplanes. Uh, you will see. So, so, this is a good experience for, I think for every, uh, for, uh, people who work with aviation.
Q: So you often have to communicate with other people, with your partners, colleagues. Uh, how can you say, um, you imagine the ideal colleague?
A: Uh, ideal colleague? Interesting question. The, the first one, uh, uh, - communication. If we, for example, uh, look in the same way, uh, this is good for the person who work with, uh, other person. Uh, let me explain. For example, if I think as like my colleague, it's, uh, better and easy work with him or her. If, uh, uh, and also the language, uh, level. In the Russian Federation as you, uh… Let me explain first, uh, in Uzbekistan, uh, the first language, native language, Uzbek language, the second is Russian. So it's easy to communicate here. Uh, and, uh, all the staff in our representation speak in Russian. It's easy to communicate. So, uh, and also how to explain… former Soviet Union people, we think as much as, uh, same, uh, with, uh, people in Russian Federation. So this is also easy for, uh… I heard from my colleagues in Europe, in the United States, uh, they think differently as in Russia actually in, uh, former Soviet Union people. So this is a good for work here. This is a … easy
Q: As I understand you have the same mindset with people here, right? Mm-hmm. 
A: Yes-yes…
Q: Uh, so, uh, if we were talking about mindset and work ethics, uh, what, how could you describe what is the right way to make decisions, uh, in your work? Like the decision making process? What is it like?
A: Uh, I didn't get the… idea
Q: Uh, so for example, uh, during your working days, you have some problems, you have some, uh, things that you have managed. And how is the decision about the problem is made in, in your work? 
A: Uh, the, the biggest problem is customers. As you know, if, uh, you work, uh, depends with customers, it's, uh, the customer. All the customers is different. Sometimes, uh, the, uh, in our case, not customers, probably passengers. Yeah. Uh, some passengers understand, some passengers don't understand. Some passengers start to explain the rule, which, uh, we already know this rule. And, uh, this is big trouble in, in the, how to explain in the, our position. 
Uh, the best way to tell them, the best way - to complain to, uh, our, uh, we just, uh, airline staff. We're not an airline. Just complain to the head office. If you have some problems, that's it. And everything is done.
Q: I understand. And if you have some conflicts with colleagues during the working days. It is, uh, usual <normal> sometimes to have conflicts. How do you like to handle this conflict?
A: Uh, interesting question. If, uh, probably we don't have any problems because my colleagues, everything and everybody is <well-experienced>, so, uh, and we understand each other, so there is no problem. If we have some trouble, uh, with my colleagues, if I have some trouble, I just explain them. If they don't want to understand, I will tell about this, uh, to my top manager. And he will explain <laugh>.
Q: Okay, I understand. And when you communicate with your top manager, how do you like to organize this communication?
A: How to organize?
Q: Um, how do you usually…
A: By letter or by words? What do you mean?
Q: Uh, the question is more about what would you like to change or what do you like about the current, uh, way of communicating with your, uh, with your top manager? Like maybe communication style. 
A: Communication style? Just knock the door, open the door, sit and tell everything. 
Q: So, um, then you would say that you like to talk over the problems. If there's a problem, the best way to resolve it, as I understood, is to talk more about it, right?
A: Yes-yes.
Q: So, uh, then moving to next, uh, question about your professional experience, like your day-to-day experience, please, can you describe your, uh, usual (typical) workday? How it begins, how it ends, what do you do in the middle?
A: Actually, I have two positions in, um, this representation. Uh, the first one, I am, uh, deputy, uh, representative of region - regional, uh, representation. Uh, it means, uh, I'm responsible for more than 10 stations in the Russian Federation. This is Irkutsk, Vladivostok, Omsk, Perm and, and other, et cetera. Uh, and my second position is I am responsible for the shift, uh, in, uh, airport Vnukovo. Uh, it depends, uh, let me explain how to start my day. The first day I am responsible in Vnukovo airport, daytime. And the second day, the next day, I'm responsible for the nighttime in airport Vnukovo. Uh, the third day I have an off day <day-off> because I, I'm not sleeping all night. So, uh, the fourth day I am uh <pause> I'm responsible in regional representation and come back again. <laugh>.
Q: So, uh, when you have a morning shift or night shift, how do you spend it? Uh, what do you do during the shift? 
A: Uh, I come to the airport. I check the, all the information about, uh, the flights, which, uh, will be in my shift. And, uh, then, uh, start the registration of passengers. Uh, after we … during the registration, a lot of questions come from passengers. Uh, we, uh, try to solve this. If they don't understand, uh, I explained before, I just, uh, we just tell to complain or, uh, send the question to our head office. That's it. And, uh, close the registration and, uh, depart the flight. That's it. 
Q: And then the next day you are on the night shift and it's the same?
A: Yes. Same. Same. But in the office. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. In the, yes, in the regional, regional, uh, representation, it's a little bit different because this is office work. Uh, we are more, uh, communicate with our, in all the, our stations, uh, in Russian Federation, by the email, by the phone, like this. It's online actually.
Q: So, uh, for the last five years, do you think your work has, uh, somehow changed? I think you grew in your position, your positions changed. Uh, what, uh, how can you describe these changes and what is your experience? How did your professional skills changed and maybe your personal skills also changed with this work?
A: Uh, yes. In aviation, actually my professional skills improved, very improved because, uh, in Uzbekistan, in the head office, um, my position was, uh, uh, a protocol and visa department specialist. Uh, it's, uh, actually different, uh, position, maybe, uh, the, what it's as like same, our position in my position before, and now it's, uh, immigration roles, that's it. All of other things, it's different. So I improved my skills for, uh, for… how to explain… provide, uh, everything to operate the flight. Uh, he in, uh, representation. But before I didn't get that. Uh, so when I start, started to work here, it was news for me. And it was a little bit difficult the first time. Thanks of all, uh, thanks for my colleagues, for everybody. They helped me. They explained what I have to do, what I have to not do. So, and, uh, now I am, I'm not professional, but I think, um, much improved before, uh, when I, before
Q: So you learned something in the new sphere, like how flights operate. You learned on a deeper level, right?
A: Yes. Yes. 
Q: Uh, maybe while you were learning and while this changes happened in your life, uh, you probably handle some, uh, learn some lessons. And the question is, what has been the most valuable lesson that you've learned, uh, in your professional career?
A: In professional career? In Russian Federation, or in, at all?
Q: No, just overall. General. Yes. 
A: Uh, to communicate with people. This is the, the difficult, very difficult thing, uh, to communicate with people. And for now it's, uh, uh, actually the, for now it's different because people start to be angry so fast. So that's why.
Q: So do you think before it was easier?
A: Before? Yes, because, uh, uh, now I think, in my opinion, people start to think too much about, uh, making money. So that's why they start to be angry. Uh, for example, if before you said something and they, it's, it was normal for them, but now they start to be angry so fast.
You, you can see actually in, uh, Moscow, it's, uh, too much angry people. <laugh> <laugh>.
Q: Right. Uh, I understand you. And, uh, then the last, the final, concluding, question would be just for you to imagine if you were to start your own business, what would it be?
A: My own business? I never think about that because maybe I'm not a businessman, that's why. But if I start my own business, what I?...
Q: What would you like to do?
A: Um, in which position? You mean? Uh, in which way … start or what
Q: Yes. In which way? What would you want it to be?
A: Aviation, maybe. May, may, maybe catering. It's good also to make money. And, uh, it's interesting to provide the food to flights. 
Q: Well, you said about catering. Why is catering the most interesting for you?
A: Because, uh, you know, uh, the business which comes with food, it… from this business you can make more money than different, because you spent, for example, $1 and you will get back to, for example, like ... Like this.
Q: I understand. 
A: Maybe, that's why. Yes.
Q: And… Uh, cash back is better. Cashback is… right. And where do you think, sorry, I said that was the last question. Like the last, last question. Where do you think would be, uh, the most comfortable to start this business, catering?
A: …Where… the catering business? Uh, the best. You mean, in which city? In which country? Yeah?
Q: Yes.
A: Where? - uh, I think it's Turkey.
Q: Turkey. Oh, why?
A: Uh, because a lot of flights there. 
Q: I understand…
A: Where there are a lot of flights, it means, uh, you have a lot of customers. A lot of customers. A lot of money.
Q: Great! Uh, thank you for your interview. Thank you for your time!
A: No problem.
Q: Did you like the interview? Did you like the questions?
A: I love it.
Q: Was it interesting?
A: Because I speak in English, I remember my English, I start to speak better, but, uh, I feel that, uh, I forgot a lot of words. It's a little bit different. To speak.
Q: I understand. 
