Q: So hello Jack, I'm really appreciate it. Today you can join this interview. I'm currently to join this project which is called Culture code. So today I just like chill interview and answer my question just this sure. Firstly, please introduce yourself about your background and everything.
A: OK, so my name is Jack, my surname is Jackman. Well, I am from South Korea and I'm 27 years old. I studied here in Russia and finished the Saint Peterburg State University of Faculty of Management. Now currently I'm working in Russian company named HTS which is producing coolers and chillers and working in international department of exporting the stuff.
Q: Sounds really interesting. So how do you understand that the job, it's being done well.
A: Well, basically our company have like individual plans for each person and we as a international staff need to achieve these goals. For example, in first quarter, I need to make at least 100 cold calls or 20 hot calls. And when I'm finished, this is mean to me that I've done my job well. And yeah, I just follow the rules of our like head managers.
Q: OK, next the question is about what is the right way to make decision in your work.
A: I guess it depends on the situation, depends on question. However, everything in our company related to results. For example, if you made a decision to of any problem and this lead to a greater fail, for example, you will all you'll always be honored to have even bonuses. However, if the consequences of this decision is bad, still the management will tell you that yeah, next time you should think better because it leads to like mistakes and even minuses for the company.
Q: OK. Can you can you describe about what's your idea of work environment?
A: Well, I definitely believe nowadays in my place now where work, I have ideal environment of working because in our office, in our department we have 6 managers who are currently working in exporting stuff in the Central Asia region and our work is balanced in terms of they are all professionals who respect each other. However, we are ready to help each other. For example, if I have questions, I can ask any of my partners and they will help me and if they have questions I also I also will help them. So this is ideal environment where everybody is professional, however they always try to help each other.
Q: Can you tell me about your usual working day? What's that?
A: Well I my work starts at 9:00 AM and usually starts from checking my e-mail because I have I need to communicate with my partners from other countries and emails is the best way of communication. So after checking emails I if I have some offers or questions I usually phone call them which called hot calls and until like 13 PM and then I have a break. After the break I just we just have two hours of Co work with my partners of my department when we discuss our what issues, what problems or what any advantages we made during the day. So after this I just start making cold calls or sending emails with the product, trying to also answer the questions of the of not just employees but also customers.
Q: For example.
A: Yeah, the ends of the day of the of the work day, just leave some my comments to my partners and the day you finished.
Q: Could you please describe your latest achievement in your working place?
A: Well, I guess last month it wasn't my individual achievement, however, it was our like depart achievement of our old department where each of us we reached the agreement with with some Uzbek company name trust. We, we created a project where we'll in where we'll implement our product in their like huge project. And this project already have been approved by our managers and by their managers and now we're working on details. I think this is one of the best issues I have had in our company. Our I mean team have had.
Q: Please describe the work before. I mean previously that work and creating this. This work was different with this tool.
A: Well, before this place I've worked in Korean company, but it was also located in Russia. The company was producing details for cars and I was also managing the company. However, the atmosphere of work wasn't that good because our, let's say head department pushed us to do unrealistic targets. But here in my current job at our head office, like know what what is better and what is achievable. That is why others why I feel more better because now I know at least my goal, my like a month goal is achievable. And of course, atmosphere is better. As I said earlier, our colleagues, my colleagues are very polite, very friendly and they're ready to help. So this is I think the biggest difference.
Q: OK. The last question, it's about describe what right now your company, what's the business and some normal information.
A: Describe my company.
Q: Yes, right now, correct.
A: I'm working in HTS company. It is a Russian company. However it's now it is from 2023. I mean it's exploring some international business trying to export its products and I'm currently working in the department of International business. So our company produce chillers, conditioners, coolers and etcetera. It works in any in many manufacturers like healthcare like railways, some oil companies etcetera. So whenever you need to call or system in order to produce like cool atmosphere, our company is ready to help.
Q: Thank you for your time. That's all. 
A: Thank you for having me.





