Q: Well, yeah, we are connected. Okay. So, Mr. Isid, can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. How are you?
A: I'm good. You?
Q: I'm good. Thank you. First of all, thank you so much for joining with me. And it's my absolute pleasure to have you.
A: So actually, thank you for having me.
Q: Yeah. So, so let's start. Can you just a little bit describes about yourself, your work and about yourself, all those things?
A: Yeah, sure. So, you know, my name is M.B. Shtiak and I am from Australia, Sydney, Australia. And I lived in Bangladesh last five years. I used to work in like human resources. I worked with like multinational companies and international development organizations before. And in Australia, I'm actually pursuing my master right now. I doing a master of business management at Central Queensland University. And also, I'm working in a retail shop as a retail associate. I'm working with like as the little exotica group in the Sunglass at Concession store inside Maya and it's located in like Miranda Westfield Sydney so that's a little bit about me and yeah let's get going okay okay.
Q: Okay so so currently you are working in Australia and before that do you have any work experience?
A: uh before that yeah so in Australia my work is as like a retail associate which i've just told you and before that yes i have worked like near about five years in like human resources and my last job was with like a multinational company and that was like genpa Bangladesh it's a subsidiary of Julpa UAE that's like UAE is one of the largest producer and like exporter of like medicines so yeah and before that I worked with like Friendship International that's like an international development organization and I worked there for about like three years so altogether my work experience in human resources is like five years a little bit more than five years and yeah.
Q: Okay great okay so you have like you have a certain level of experience in multiple countries like Bangladesh and Australia as well. So may I know what's the difference between the work culture in Bangladesh and Australia?
A: Yeah, so I've actually worked in two different work setups because before I moved to Australia, I've never worked in retail. up because before I moved to Australia I've never worked in retail. Retail is totally different than what I used to do in Bangladesh because that was like you know nine to five corporate job. That was like a desk job but in Australia it's like a retail job so uh that is quite that was quite new for me because i've never worked in retail before and if you ask me about like a work culture difference i wouldn't uh be able to you know um describe like an official setup in australia because i didn't work in an office setup in australia yet I'm yet to experience that. But in retail, it's like very fast paced. And the thing is like you have to work in a team, of course. And that's quite similar to like how we used to work in Bangladesh as well. I mean, like you have to work in teams and also work culture is like in Bangladesh, people are like more emotional and here people are more practical. So also there's like another significant difference that I have noticed so far is like in Bangladesh, some local organizations, fortunately, I didn't have to work with a lot of local organizations, I worked with like multinationals and INGOs. But I have had friends who have worked with like local organizations. And there it was, it was something like when you ask for a leave and your employer, they don't seem to be very happy about it, even though you are entitled to take leaves, like sick leaves, casual leaves, whatever. But in Australia, it's very like, you know, whenever you needed a to leave you just inform your manager and they are pretty much cool about it and here people value like your mental well-being which is in Bangladesh I would say like in more most local companies or organizations, they don't really, you know, emphasize that much on like mental health. So this is a significant change here in Australia. So, yeah, these are a few significant changes that I have noticed so far.
Q: okay and uh my second question would be like um what gets you more excited to going to work so what's the thing actually you are excited field to going to work in australia
A: okay so i'll give you like a very practical answer to that because a lot of fabricated answer would sound like so I love to help people and all to for me I actually yeah because I have been working human resources before I love to work with people I love helping people and even though I have never worked in retail so this kind of job, like working in retail, it requires you to be like a very good communicator. And also you have to be able to help people. Because in retail, what happens, like when someone comes to your store, they're actually looking for something. So you are there to help them to make that purchase decision or make suggestions based on their needs so yeah that's what i uh enjoy about my job that would be a very generalized answer but in addition to that what else says like uh since i was new to a retail sector and uh at the beginning my confidence was like very low i didn't think for the first week i didn't even think that i could survive the retail environment because you know um i i moved to australia from a different country and uh some uh people from like you know eastern suburbs they have a distinct uh extent of speaking which I was having like a really hard time to understand. But eventually after a week, I actually, you know, started to get their accent, started to understand what they're trying to say. And I started to communicate well. say and I started to communicate well and so yeah and what excites me most about my job is like if the store makes the budget I mean like daily budget and then we have like weekly budget and then monthly budget if the store makes budget you get bonus so for me it's like entirely money money motivates me because you know i'm an international student here and i have a lot of you know bills to pay i have to save for my like university as well so expenses as well tuition fees etc etc i have to pay like every kind of bills that i have so for me if i do well in my job that means i'll get some bonus at the end of the month so uh you know doing well in my job is not an option for me that's what i strive to do because uh i know a lot of people will give you like a different different answer but for me money is the biggest motivator so it motivates me that's what actually excites me about my job
Q: yeah okay okay um so um so you have certain level experience in uh bangladesh and australia as you said so uh may know uh from the beginning of their uh of career and till now so what has been the most valuable lessons of your professional career?
A: Valuable lessons? Yeah. Okay. So that should be never to take anything on heart because I have had like very difficult customers, like handling really difficult customers who would make some, you know, racist comments. Also, I've had really good customers at the same time most of my customers are really good so uh the one valuable lesson that i learned from my job is like to let go whatever uh is like bothering you you have to let it go otherwise if you let it ruin your day if you will not be able to perform well in your job and you will not be able to communicate with other customers you will not be able to serve them better you will not be able to make the budget and if you don't do that if you let someone um you know to uh with their uh you know harsh comments or like difficult behavior, if you let them ruin their day, ruin your day, what will happen that you will lack in performance. And if you lack in performance, you will not be able to make the budget. So you will not be, you will still get your salary, of course, but you will not get the bonus that you need to pay a lot of your bills so for me it's not an option so yeah uh for me the valuable lesson is to let go and never take like anything on hard so yeah that's what i learned
Q: okay okay uh so um would you uh rather work alone or with a team? Which one would you prefer? Okay.
A: So we are actually, we are a team of like four people in our shop right now. But the thing is like, even though we are a team, but most of the time we work alone because of the store hour. We have like limited store hours so most of the time we are working by ourselves but sometimes there's like crossovers and like for two three hours we get to uh work together with like another team member that's at max like two person at the same time not more than that uh it really helps like it really helps as in like if you are a good team now you just don't compete with each other you you know compliment each other and you cooperate with each other and you especially during like a rush hour uh right now it's like christmas season for example it's a high season for like retail shops retail business retail industry as a whole so if you uh if your team performs well and if you if you are you know well cooperating and communicating well with your team and if it's like a well-coordinated team uh then everything know, makes easier because one, for example, one team member can be behind, you know, a cash counter, another one may be serving the customers in the floor. So it gets a lot easier. So I'm actually, you know, very flexible in terms of like working with a team or working by myself. I, most of the times i work by myself because of the store hour because of the work condition here i have to work by myself most of the time but whenever i'm working with a other team member uh so that also works for me very well we get along and we make it work and it's fun like you get someone to talk to as well you guys can you know uh make some jokes and make laugh each other so work is not like boring same organizing if you're working with a team member other team member so yeah i'm flexible in terms of like working alone and working in a team
Q: okay okay uh so uh so and uh my next question would be like, how do you manage and conflict with co-workers or your team?
A: All right, so I wouldn't say that conflict never happens in my work. So I have had a fair share of conflicts before and in my current job as well. like fair share of conflicts before and in my current job as well like for example um uh it i wouldn't say like it was like a very difficult kind of conflict but it was sort of conflicting as in like uh sometimes um i go extra mile uh so that my store performs well and like visual merchandising or everything in my store is like tidy, well organized, I make sure before leaving. So sometimes when we close at night at around like 9, 10, as it is like high season now, so whenever some other team member closes, they do not always leave the store very tidy organized or reports are in place they don't leave it like that way so whenever i'm opening the next day what i see is like a messy store no visual merchandising there and like as you know i work at sand glass art so that's like a sand glass shop so we have like walls and tables if it doesn't look tidy organized and clean the next person who you know opens the shop uh they usually come before like 10 minutes of store opening okay so uh and after 10 minutes they have to do like you know hash counts they have to do like clean, they have to do like, you know, hash counts. They have to do like cleanings. They have to do like all sort of works. So it's really difficult. If the last person closing the last night, if they don't leave the store tidy, clean and organized, it's very difficult for the next person who comes in open. Okay. organized it's very difficult for the next person who comes and open okay so I had some like sort of disagreement with like one of my colleagues and I
asked her like why don't you I mean like leave the store clean and tidy before you leave every time you close the shop the next day when I open it's like really messy and it doesn't give you a really nice feeling because you are just starting the day also you get to uh you know uh enter the uh shop 10 minutes before it's opened for customers and it's really nearly impossible to do everything like and keep everything on track because after 10 minutes all the customers will rush into the store and what will you do you will do hash counts or you will do cleaning or you will serve the customer make the sale what will you do because you are working by yourself right so and i have told her like several times. And then when it didn't work, I didn't complain to my manager. What I did is like we have like a shared group. OK, so in that group, I wrote like a generalized message for everyone. And I thanked everyone. I was very polite with my, it was likenicely curated. I thought about it, like what am I going to say? So I thanked everyone for their hard work
during this high season. Everyone is doing their best to, you know, keep on track and move the budget. So I thanked them. them and also i reminded them before we uh before we close we should make sure that uh for next day we have like you know enough uh carry bags enough sandals cases are uh you know the sunglasses in the tables and walls are like uh cleaned and they're well organized so we should make sure that that's what i wrote like in a very nice well chosen words like very well curated message i wrote for everyone and everyone appreciated that including my manager later so and after that since in that group our regional manager area manager and also an abp was also in that group including my manager and other team members so everyone saw that message and everyone appreciated me for that so the colleague that i was having that conflict with i mean sort of conflict that she was not willing to you know cooperate in that sense she just rushes back to home right after it's closing time. So she wouldn't do any cleaning or anything before she leaves. So after I wrote that message, I actually talked to her verbally like several times and it was not working. She told me like, okay, yeah, I'll remember that. I'll do it. But she never did it. So I had to go like another step and I wrote that message on that group and after that what happened she started to comply because she she saw that everyone including the ADP area manager and my manager store manager everyone was like appreciate appreciating what I had written there. So she started complying. Now we move past that. And whenever I have a cross work with her, crossover at work with her, there is no sign of conflict between her and me. And we work as a team very nicely. So yeah, that's what I did in this job..
Q: Okay. Okay. And we work as a team very nicely so yeah that's what i did in this job. What does uh work balance uh um mean to you like how do you actually balance work and professional uh in your personal life
A: okay so work work-life balance is simply like you know you have to have like a healthy lifestyle and also you got to work because without work uh how are you going to pay your bills right so uh but you have to live your life as well so that for that for me that's like very important so to do work-life balance i have like i'm on roaster so i know my next week's plan um because the roaster has been uh published like prior to a week at least so we know what am i going to do for like next one week and when am i when am i working and when am i not and when do i have classes when do I have classes, when do I have exams, when do I have assignments, I know everything beforehand. So I try to manage my time based on that and on weekends I, you know, Australia is a very beautiful country and we have like a lot of beaches here, like a lot of beaches uh yeah beautiful beaches here so sometimes i like to go to you know beach take a dive into the ocean and or you know hang out with my friends go to movies or i love to read i love to read a lot of books so that's what i do most of the time even when i'm doing a beach picnic i I take my books. I actually books, I carry books with me like everywhere. So that's what I do. And also sometimes I talk to my parents back at home and my friends. And like, you know, my friends overseas, I talk to them sometimes. I try to, you know, stay connected to everyone. That's how I sort of try to you know balance my work and life so that I have like a social life I have a personal time for myself and also I have like enough time to study and at the same time I have like a productive work life as well for me that's like work-life balance
Q: okay so uh my last questions um so mr isek you have uh you have a vast experience uh in the field of hr and now you're working in detail so uh so over the last okay so uh so what advice would you give to someone who wants to start, who is a beginner, who are starting out in career, actually? So for a beginner, what would be your advice to start a career?
A: Okay. So I can actually give you an answer in two different ways. From my prior experience, my previous experience in human resources, that's what I can do, give you an answer from that perspective and my present perspective. I'll try to blend and give you one simple answer, okay? So for someone who's wanting to start their career uh my suggestion is be bold and uh also don't be scared of anything okay just believe in yourself that you can do it like when i started working in retail i had zero experience in retail and I am actually I always have been very good with interviews because I took a lot of interviews in my life because for last five years I have been doing like you know those sort of work like I have worked in recruitment I have worked in training and development organizational development and change management, etc. So I know what sort of questions are being asked in interview. So I was always good at interview and I did well in my interview. But when I got the job for retail associate and in my first day at work, I had such a cold feet. And I was not understanding anyone's accent like from the people of the shire they have like different kind of accent that they use a lot of acronyms and that I'm not familiar with I used to think that my English communication was good but when I started working in retail I started to doubt that like I was thinking like maybe I'm not that good maybe they understand me whatever I'm trying to say they understand me but whatever they're trying to say I'm not understanding it completely so there was
like a barrier for me but I was I was like you know I was like you know pushing myself like I was like okay I'll take that like one week challenge so little little little little step I know I'm confident in my ability and I'm
just having this communication gap with them but if I spend enough time with these people in the sales floor and try to communicate and maybe I can politely ask them to repeat what they have just said, try to, you know, push my boundary and never be scared to, you know, ask again. So I have done that. So my suggestion is never be scared because it's not rocket science. Whatever work you are going to do, it's not rocket science. Not that rocket science is like impossible to do. Some people are doing it right. And yeah. So for general people like me or like a lot of other people that I know, the sort of work that you are going to do, it's not going to be very difficult. And it's kind of like just go there and try to do your best and try to keep your mind open to learn new things all the time. Because I learn everything every day you know in my job i learn every day there are like newer newer things in this job i have been working for like last four months now but there is so much to learn every day you know what sort of question you should ask the customers what sort of question that you should avoid what are the open-ended questions what are the close-end questions and uh like also there's like there's like there's a lot of like technical issues as well like uh the pause machine so we give we use like two different pause machines for transactions one of one is like our own system and as we work as like a concession store inside another big store. So we have to use their machine as well. So, yeah. So you just have to be open to learn every day. So it's not even my manager once told me that he thinks he doesn't know everything. Yeah, it's impossible for someone to know everything, right? So you have to be able to open your mind to learn new things each and every day. And if you do that, and if you strive to do better, eventually you'll get there. So my suggestion is never be scared. Just go there, do it, have courage, have belief in yourself, and always think that you can do it, and you actually can do it. You'll see. It's just a matter of time.
Q: Yeah. Great. So, okay, Mr. Istiaka, we have reached the end of the sessions. And once again, thank you so much for joining with me today. So undoubtedly, your insights on this topic have added value to my project. So, yeah, thank you so much and appreciate your time and looking forward to have you next time.
A: Thank you so much, Mr. Ghosh, for having me in your session i hope it helps and uh yeah if you need any further assistance or support regarding whatever queries you might have feel free to write to me you have my email and you know how to contact me so yeah i'll be happy to answer thank you so much for having me thank you. thank you so much for having me. Thank you. Have a nice rest of the day.
Q: Bye.
A: Bye.