Q: All right. So, Mr. Adrian,
A: Mr. Michael, welcome.
Q: Thank you so much for having me this evening.
A: It's my pleasure.
Q: Alright, so I realize you are a big man from your profile I'm giving me, I realize you're a big man and you have a lot of workers under you, uh, in in few ways. Can you describe what you do, like what you do as a manager?
A: Okay, thank you for your question. My name is, uh, so I'm an operations manager for a right heading business.
Q: So right heading basically is, uh, people train, right?
A: And the drivers come in to pick them up. I have 15 people working under me. So basically with the operation team, we make sure that, uh, we make sure that the app is functioning well. Drivers are being paid with their balances on the app.
Q:  Uh, they're getting the right resources to work.
A: We are giving them the right campaigns that will motivate them to do their business. And we are also solving issues when it comes to bad driver behavior. Yeah. And bad rider behavior too. So basically I think that's the entirety of my, my job responsibilities. And it's my, it's my duty to make sure that, uh, people working under me. Uh, most of the times the job is more about dedication, just making sure you are, you are, you are appointing or you're selecting the right subordinate for the right job and empowering them to also, uh, become their own bosses in the future.
Q:  Alright, thank you so much for this insightful overview or about how what you do at work. I realize you are a mindful of passion from your, your small speech. Uh, I would like you to describe how your working environment is, basically how your working environment is.
A:  Thank you. I I really love my working environment. It's, it's, it is a, an information service company. So I think for me, one particular thing that I admire so much is the fact that I can just pick my t-shirt, pick my trailer, and wear my sneaker and go to work. So there is no, we, the company has a term called we don't, we don't entertain corporate bullshit. Like I don't have to be in a suit and tie before I can perform, perform, uh, exceptionally well at my workplace. Uh, we, we are just a team of young people, so you always come to see enthusiasm. There, there are always that exchange of ideas. People share their ideas and there are lots of bright minds, minds around. So always you are, you are that excited to come to work, to listen to what someone would want to say, or some idea that will come up from even the, the lowest of person in the ranks that you don't, you don't expect at the workplace. So basically that is how my job environment environments is.
Q: Alright, thank you so much Mr. Adrian.
A: You are welcome.
Q: Uh, I realize, uh, under your Nigeria position, I realize you promote a lot of diversity at your workplace in a sense that, I mean, you don't strictly force people to be in a particular code. I mean, dress code. You are more focused on delivering your target or achieving your organizational goal. Uh, I want to know, just a follow up question. I want to know that from your
perspective, how will you understand that the job is being done well, in a sense that you don't put strict measures on how your workers should be. Because for instance, when you enter some corporate world, like the banking sector, there's a code you're supposed to follow. But I realize from your view, you don't have a strict code that people follow. So I want to know, how would you describe, or how, uh, would you describe if your work is being done?
A: Thank, thank you for the question. So in as much as as a business, we always would want to meet our KPIs, meet our business goals, get generates more revenues, uh, generates more net profits, like get more net profits.
We work with people and we ask, I'm so concerned about, uh, the, the, how should I put it? Like, I'm so con concerned about the, what's, what's even the word for it, like the, the welfare of, uh, of, of my subordinate. Because we are in an era where depression and, and, and, and anxiety and a lot of bad, bad feelings are very paramount. So it's not, it's not, it's not always about just being stringent on their neck that we should meet the, the set codes or the KPIs. It's always important to, to keep in mind how you can mobilize these people, let them work as a team and achieve the targets that you have. So for me, the KPIs are important for the business to go. We have to achieve it, but I always make sure that we achieve it as a team and work together as a team and support each other along the way. That is, that is for me what, what I term as, uh, objectives being achievable, not that stringent way. You have to do this, you have to do that, you have to do that. And I always don't like micromanaging because for me, micromanage managing is very, very is very, very bad because it always make the person you are micromanaging field feel, feel that uh, he or she that's like, doesn't know enough or it's not capable of delivering. So I like, I love delegating, trusting the people to do, to execute their jobs and also learn from what I have come to know from the business.
Q: Alright, thank you so much. This is very, I mean, insightful. I'm, I'm, I'm so much impressed about your, your, how you're managing your company.
A: Thank you.
Q: Yeah. So Mr. Adrian, uh, I also want to know about, because what we are talking about is just basically about your success metrics, how you measure your KPIs and some key indicators that shows that your company is running successfully. Sure. Yeah. So I want to know, uh, about probably your latest achievements. I mean, since you took over as a manager, I want to know your latest achievement so far.
A: Thank you very much for the question. So for me, the, the most recent achievement is, is, is the expansion, the business expansion that we, we, we did, we did recently in 2024. So we realized as a business we were just, uh, dominant in a crime kus. And we had to spread, spread our wings, Accra, commers integrity, and we had to spread our wings to other citizens. And you see the most, most of the times in like in cities, countries like Ghana or in Africa, people always in there in the capital. So people coming from other cities will always in the capital. And when they are coming from your cities and they, they have an idea or they have a knowledge about your business already, when they come, it becomes easy for them to use your services. I know definitely that based on, uh, based on, based on our calculations and our projections, we realize that we are not really going to business operations in certain areas. They're not going to really yield more profits like that. But it had more benefits on, uh, uh, it will have more benefit on our, our performance in Accra. And definitely it's like it happened and it boomed. We, we launched our operations in the northern parts of Ghana. We did for, for Origin, we did for Cape Coast. And I think we did for Sunni to end the operation in as much as we are not generating as huge numbers as, as the cap, the two bigger cities in the two bigger commercial cities in Ghana, commercial and crowd, we are doing some good numbers that are really, uh, pushing, pushing our business as a whole and also letting people spread the news about our riot healing service. Because the internet penetration in Ghana is not that huge. And basically we, we would want people to know about us. We have to go to places where, where people will be comfortable with us. Then when they come to that capacity, it'll become very easy for them to use our services. So for me, I think that is a very good achievement as a business to not to only look at the profitability side, but to look at the overall impact it will have on the entire business as a whole.
Q: Alright. Alright. Thank you so much.
A:  You're welcome. 
Q: Uh, I realize your company is doing very well and mostly in the business environment, certain expansion, like what you said, growth is basically based on some key decisions that you make as a manager. So I want to know from your perspective, how do you go about your decision making in your company? 
A: Okay, thank you for your question. So for me, decision making as a manager is one of the most challenging, challenging, uh, activities or challenging responsibilities, uh, on your decks because you would, if, if you don't create room for people to come up with ideas or if you don't create room for dialogue to be made or collaboration be made, it always makes you fixated to something that is a cake, something that is rigid, something that makes it very, very difficult for your, your people or team members to, to adjust or, or play their part in, in implementing the decision after it's been is been, is been is being made because, uh, there is a saying that, uh, idea is not in one month's head rise. And the youth, there's also another saying that the, the young ones are the one full of ideas. So if you open that room for people to make, definitely in the business sector, the final decision has to come, come from the manager, right? Or the final decision has to come from the board. But if you give room for people to also come up with ideas and that decision is being made and you credit the people that came up with ideas, it helps to, to foster that, that uh, coordination that collaborativeness in the business. And it helps people to appreciate what their input that they are bringing to the table. And they tend to to stay longer and give more, more better results for the company. So for me, out all my decisions that I make in the company, I always make sure that I have my team involved. It's not a one month thing and we, it's a collaborating thing. Then we do it and we do it together to achieve the resource that we want. 
Q: Alright. Okay. So thank you so much, uh, for your answer. 'cause I realize you mostly have a kind of collective decision. Sure. So I want to know, uh, do you have allies with other companies? When you, what is your ideal knowledge about, uh, partnership? Do you have any company that you partner with or you do everything on your own? 
A: We have, we have quite a number of partnerships because, uh, sometimes we provide PS on our platform for, to motivate hardworking, hardworking drivers. And also sometimes we provide ps for, for hard for, lemme say truthful passengers. For, for, for example, there's a, there's a, there's a passenger that, that left No, for truthful drivers, there's a driver that someone left, left huge sums of money in his car and he returned it. If it was supposed to be someone, he would try to be caught, although we have measures in place to, to get, get, get an arrest, that person. But if was been somebody who tried to be corny and, and run away with, with, with the money, which would take some time for us to, to get, to get to get him. And we also provide insurance. We work with insurance companies to provide some insurance, insurance packages for, for the drivers. We also work with a network company. I think before, before July, 2024, we signed a, a mo m mo which, which the biggest network company in Ghana, um, to provide some data services for, for, for our drivers, which they started implementing in September, which is actually a good thing. So you can, no one is an airline. You can't do everything on your own, no matter whatever. We also have partnership with some four stations. We provide four vouchers. Uh, we have a partnership with a, a one, uh, maintenance comment, car maintenance shop in AC garage, which help our top performing drivers to service their cars and maintain their tires and those things. So no one is an island g. We definitely would need services from people and it is always good for business to bond and, and, and do business together. 
Q: Alright. Alright. That is very good. I mean, good stand on your, it's a good thing for your company to be doing because the world now is become more global and it cannot be an and a company on your own. Like you're just running things on your own. You need to form allies, you need to, I mean, partner with other companies and I mean from your, uh, experience I think is a good note for your company. So I want to know, it's just a, uh, other question I want to give. I want to know that every company and how they come about with their communication hierarchy, you know, every company, how information is being flowed and information is how information is being passed on. I want to know from your view, the relationship you have with your other, your supervisors. Maybe if you have anybody that supervise your activities, I want to know the kind of communication, the kind of relationship you have with them. 
A: Okay. Thank, thank you for your question. So when it comes to information dissemination, I think with my company, I think beginning of the, our conversation, I made mention of the fact that we don't entertain corporate bo corporate bullshit. Not to say that we don't have a procedure or a proper way of communication in our company. We do have a proper way of com communication in our company. We have, we have, we use, we use an internal communication platform called, called we. We, we do have access to corporate emails and other stuff, but it's an internal communication to call Slack. Where we, each one has particular channels, particular groups particular, there are channels for, for general manager. There are channels for managers, there are channels for the executive board. There are channels for man gen, uh, project managers, operation managers, uh, customer support managers, like all these channels are there where we, we, we communicate, we tag people that are responsible for particular jobs and other stuff. But if I, I have, I have people that supervise me. If I want to communicate anything to my bosses, there's nothing, there's nothing that can't stop me from uh, channeling my ideas or asking them question about, about anything that there is that openness in our, in my company. Because, because you are not allowed to restrict someone from making this point because no one knows the reason, the reason why as a company, we, we stand with this with distance is because one of our verticals that we operating the whole of the, in the whole globe, I think the business operates in 150 countries, started from someone who is, uh, who was lower in the rank. It was his idea that brought up that vertical and it was being worked on and became bigger and bigger, started generating more revenue than even the oldest vertical. Like it started generating almost as like, as half of the revenue in the oldest vertical in the business was, was generating. So our communication is open. You talk to your, you talk to, there is that proper feedback system we have. We do reviews of performances, we do reviews of, of, uh, attacks, all those things. And people, people, whenever there are issues or there are conflicts, we find the best way to resolve this, this conflict. And as so far as we are, we are humans. There will be one or two issues of people having one or two, one or two misunderstanding with a colleague or with a, a workmate. And we find out the best way to resolve this and not to make these become, become hidden hate within, within the team to affect the overall team performance. 
Q: Alright. Alright. Thank you. You are welcome. Yeah, I'm really happy to have you 'cause I realize you are full embodiment of knowledge. Mr. Adrian, uh, I want to know, you know, with your profile that I've reviewed so far, I realize you have a number of years of experience and I believe all this experience, you didn't get it from one company. So I just want to know that from your previous workplace and your current workplace, is there anything different that you are doing? Or is there anything different that you are seeing in your current comp role that you are playing as a manager in your previous workplace? Do you know what I'm saying? Yeah
A: I get what you're saying. Yeah, yeah, sure. I, I think I've worked, I've worked, I've done a number of jobs as a person or I've, I started, I started after uni, I started as a teacher at a start. I did some freelance job, uh, personally as an IT support, like I was moving around supporting people, people who needed my services. Then I worked with, I worked with the mining servicing company for six months before I move into the, the tech du the tech industry proper. So I would say from the mining services company, I've, after that I've been with my company for six years. So the mining services company, the only difference I see is with the mining services company, they are using a traditional approach. If your boss says this, you cannot say the otherwise. You understand. If your boss says, you cannot even chip in your idea what you think, because the whole perception is you are just fresh from school, you don't really have any sort of experience. You're not supposed to be the one to question my idea or you're not supposed to be the one, don't object. What I come up with, just follow the rules and do your work. Right. In the bias servicing company, you are supposed to dress in a particular way, always, and always you look like, uh, I don't know how to put it, but with my, with my current job, I can just put on my, my t-shirts, my, I can even put on, um, cam shoes and come to work. I, when I come to work, I can take my s sneaker off and put on my Crocs and just do my work. Mine is just to do my work, not necessarily how I look or, or how, and one of the thing I love about my current job is the fact that I work three days in the office, two days in the house. So that's for me that those, those, those things are the major differences why I've come to love working here. And I would probably would love to keep, uh, keep spending some time here and help them go very well as a business and expand across more cities in Ghana. 
Q: Alright, thank you. I realized you are enjoying the kind of flexibility that your work is providing for you. Sure. And, and, and that's a, a great way a company can actually motivate their employees. So, Mr. Adrian, uh, I want to know that, I want to know from your experience, because I believe for a couple of years that you have worked, or like the accumulated number of years that you have worked, I believe there are some stages that you were put on probation. I want to know what exactly did you do for you to pass those stages in your life? What exactly, what key performance did you, what did you do actually for you to pass through your probation period?
A: So I have, I have a funny, a funny story about my probation. Okay. And I think this, this, I would say this for to, to as, as, as an advice for anyone that will even into any business and, and will be put on progression. For me, I think the key thing that, that managers want to see during progression is someone that is willing to learn. Because no matter wherever I came from, you might have the experience already, but sectors and fuels and companies are different in terms of procedures and protocols and operations. Okay? Right. So regardless of the principle, the, the experience you came with, just have that adaptability spirit to adapt to the system that you were in. When I joined my company, I joined with one guy. He was, you know, in Ghana, uh, people consider that people from asasi to be more brighter than any because of the, the tructure of learning and uh, the kind of lecturers they have in their school. So I joined with one guy from Asasi. He was, I think he was at, lemme say like he was ranked more higher than me because of the univers he was coming from. But that guy didn't have the desire and the, the energy, the, the hunger and the test that I had or the passion I had for, I had for the work. Because although I came from the IT field, but I was new to data analytics, if you understand. And how quick I was able to adapt, adapt and adapt to the business, the business, uh, goals and the business metrics and those things. And how I was able to understand the connectivity of these metricses and the things that I'm supposed to do to, if a a is misbehaving, things I'm supposed to do with B to make sure it's part A, if C'S misbehaving what I'm supposed to do to part A. And those things, like those things, at that time the business was going through some kind of rough patch, but I believe it was those things that made them realize that no, these guys, regardless of the the struggles that we are going through, this guy is more hungry for success and we have to give him the chance to, to, to stay and, and also help him to become more, more better. So for me, probation, the most important thing is let let the organization see that, that willingness to learn and that spirit of adaptability and let them see that, that design, passion, passion you spoke about during your interview. 
Q: Alright. Alright. That's, that's great. That's great. And I think this is a key note for other young people aspiring to be in position one day to follow up or to learn from you. It's a good example that, I mean is do you have any, uh, plan of mentoring people? Like do you want to mentor people? Because I realize you have a lot of passion. 
A: Yeah, sure. Mentorship, but even as I'm sitting here, I, I like, I still need men more mentors. Mentorship, mentorship is very, very important because, because in as much, in as much, in as much as we as people, we always say that make your own mistakes and learn from them. It's always best to know someone's mistake and learn from learn from that mistake. It makes it more shorter and more simpler because by we don't have time, we think we have time in this life, we don't have that much time. By the time you be done making your mistakes and learning from them, time would've been far, far spent, far gone. And you will not be able to achieve, achieve what you would want to achieve. So mentorship is important for me, me, myself, I'll keep on looking for more mentors, people that can, that can help me guide me and what motivates me to become more better version of myself. And I would love to mentor people. My doors are always open for other people, black people to come and, and, and, and so that I can also share what I've learned and the knowledge I've gained. So, so, so far, but, but, so I still have some few people I, I mentor, I mentor, uh, uh, when it comes to work and when it comes to, lemme say public Christian life. So that, that, that is it when it comes to mentorship. 
Q: Alright. Alright. So I want to know once again, uh, I know that in this life most of the things that we chase after are mostly driven by our motivations and our desire. I want to know from your perspective as a manager that what actually motivates you? Uh, you know, what actually motivates you to always be at work, to always, uh, get, I mean to always achieve your, uh, organizational goal. And I want to also know what are the key things that you do to overcome some challenges that you face during your operations? 
A: Okay, thank you for your question. So when it comes to motivation, I would say that family is my motivation in everything that I do because when I wake up in the morning, I look at my wife's face, uh, it motivates me. I look at my kids' face it, me, it motivates me because basically I need to feed them. I need to take care of the home. I need to, I need to, I need to take, take care of my extended family to my, my, my dad, my mom, my, my sisters. Uh, I didn't come alone in this life. So always there are people, people I look, I look, I look up to, to as a, to draw energy from what to draw, to draw enthusiasm from. But for me, I think I always would want to, I always say that sometimes with motivation it diminishes. So I always try my best to keep that spirit of dis discipline because discipline is more of like, uh, it's like if you're able to develop that discipline, it's like a cocaine. You can't stop. Like it's always, it is always flaming in you, in you when you want to get, get get, get to what you, you have to do. And when it comes to challenges at work, when I joined my visit, my company had understand, I think I had, at that point in time, I had not learned how to, how to withstand challenges. And whenever we are in turbulence, I start to panic and I start to, I start to pass on the negative energy onto subordinate advice. So at the point I realized that you, I started learning from that, that, and at the moment I think I can, I can probably say that, uh, I've learned how to become calm. I've learned how to understand that everything that happens will pass. Like it's just for a particular moment. Like those things are faces, like it will pass. 'cause during covid time we went down like our, much like our projection went down. Like we, we, there was lockdown businesses were, were closing down, things were, were like things worked out and nothing was happening. And we was, I was scared. Like I wasn't really, really scared for myself because I felt that if I, if even if the company sucks me with the lot of experience that I have, I might get a different job if things become normal. But I was scared for the new guys that had entered like the fresh people that, that had put their trust in me for me to help them grow and for me to help them push them to the higher heights. And all of a sudden, like I was going on, my idea came in mind and we implemented, like we created a protected category in Ghana for the first time and people like bounced to the idea and our members started jumping and growing and growing and growing. So those moments taught me very important message in life that sometimes you just have to be calm. If you're a Christian to you, you just have to pray because God actually is the give off ideas and knowledge. So for me, challenges shouldn't be something to make you fold and make you make you slow down. 
Q: Alright. Alright. Thank you so much for having, for having me. And I mean, it's a pleasure talking to you. 
A: It's a pleasure to talking to you, Mr. 
Q: Aka. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you. 