Q: So hello Vika, I'm Rruizhou, I'm really appreciate this you doing about this today interview. I'm currently do some doing some project which called culture code. So today I will ask you a few questions. Just be relaxed and answer all questions.  So firstly, please introduce yourself.
A: Hello, Ruizhou.  I'm Victoria. I'm Korea citizen. I came to Russia to study and after that I just find work in some company, Aurora Technology. Now I study and work at the same time.
Q: So firstly I want to ask you how do you understand that the job is being done well?
A: Well, I understand that it's being well done when all projects are submitted exactly on time and when clients are really satisfied. For example, our last project for creating a website for a client was completed two weeks ahead of the schedule and the client was even left us greater view.
Q: OK, then what is the right way to make decisions in your work?
A: Once again, please.
Q: That means what is the right way to make decision in your work?
A: How to make decisions mostly through analysing all sort of data and of course taking feedback from our team into account. The last time we decided to which is purchasing campaign to launch, we really analysed all the previous campaigns and the team's opinions and choose the most promising option.
Q: Can you describe about your idea of work environment? For example, what kind of work environment you usually perform?
A: You know this place where you can personally, you can be creative and work independently, just these.
Q: I mean storing your real work experience. What's your idea, partner, company according your working experience?
A: Ideal partner.
Q: Ideal partner companies.
A: They need to be reliable, you know, and have a good reputation on the market, of course, like our recent supplier of companies for production who always meets deadlines exactly and offers us furball terms. Really comfortable guy to work with.
Q: So how about your idea of vacation day? I means like, you won't know which day we're working during one week, how many days we're working, how many days, vacation.
A: About vacation, Yeah, we mostly works five to two, you know, five day works to the day offs.
Q: I mean about your idea vacation day.
A: Ideal, just I prefer not work.
Q: Prefer not work.
A: It's ideal.
Q: So can you describe about your working day like it's your day one day about working day?
A: Ideal one or what?.
Q: Real. No. Real one.
A: Well, my day starts with checking my plan for the day and they're having meetings with the team.{ 4:00 }When then I mostly work on the current task, like developing a new market strategy.  For example, recently I'm doing this after lunch. I usually meet with clients or partners and in the end I just prepared reports of the day's results.
Q: So please describe your latest achievement in your working.
A: It was really interesting situation, really let me feel comfortable.Recently, I successfully completed initiations with a new supplier and we were able to reduce production cost by 10%. That's you know important for our profitability in this quarter. So if you're so good.
Q: OK.{ 4:58 }And it sounds like it's really, really interesting. So next question will be, can you describe the place of right now you're working this company ROI technology describe about a place of working?
A: For now, I am working in a modern office right in the city center, which is comfortable to go there and there's a lot of lights, some modern stuff, space, enough space, that's all just comfortable situation. We have some special workspace and some special have rest space, so it's very comfortable. If you have some tough time, you need to have some mental rest. You just go to have rest.
Q: It's true.{ 5:55 }So last, the question will be like can you describe what your company's what's your company's business including about who will connect with your partner companies? What is the main business? What your company doing?
A: Company develops software for financial institutions.  We create applications which that help banks and insurance companies to make the year operations and improve customer service.  You know, for example, we recently launched a new app for mobile banking analysis analytics, and it's already being used by several major banks.
Q: OK. I'm really appreciate it for today. Thank you very much.