Q: Mr. Fred, I'm really pleased to have you here.
A: Hi, thank you for having me. How are you?
Q: I'm great, Sir. How are you doing too? I'm.
A: Alright, I'm alright, I'm alright. What's up?
Q: Amazing. Thank you so much for your time. I understand you're a very busy person, so I'm just going to start the ball rolling. OK, So this is going to be short. I'll try to keep it very short about to start with them. I want to know kindly describe what you do at your current position with your company.
A: So I am a creative lead when it comes to content strategy and content generation and content marketing. I also do a lot of marketing services, digital marketing. I also do events, both BTL and ATL. When I say ATLI mean campaigns, I run campaigns on digital mediums and in a BTLI do underground events, marketing campaigns, events and all of that. Also I mean sports management agency work, specifically football.
Q: That's what I do. But do you enjoy these things? Just like you actually take on a lot of hearts. Do you enjoy?
A: These things, yes. So basically my business is pursue my passion. So I'm passionate about them. I give it my 100%. I enjoy doing them. Wow.
Q: And how, how do you know you've succeeded? Especially we just give a number of activities you do. So how do you know if I succeeded when it comes to particular attacks? Do you have any KPIs?
A: So yes, for marketing campaigns, for instance, I'll just limit it to marketing campaigns. So marketing campaigns, we have metrics, we have KPI, for instance, we measure the reach, we measure the experiential. So for instance, if you are talking digital marketing campaigns, you are talking about your reach, you are talking about the engagement you are able to generate online and then you are also talking about the participation. You know how many people participated the effectiveness of the campaign. So your KPI is basically would be centered around the participation, would be centered around the reach and then would also be centered around how much of the experience the people who participated enjoyed. I mean, if you can have some sort of talkability around the campaign, you can't really gauge talkability. But if you have 6 out of 10 people online talking about your campaign means you know you've achieved a particular goal.
Q: Wow, this sounds very, very interesting. Yeah, but I just want to know when you joined a company, Right. Well, well, from your experience. OK, What do you think? OK, what do you think helped you pass the probationary period? I'm sure they put you on probation for some time.
A: Well, yes, so my probationary Pro is basically was premised on my ability to deliver. And then also, you know, consistency in, in my excellence. When I say excellence, I mean the, the, the kind of the quality of the, of the output you are given. So I would also give you an example. For instance, during your probationary prod, you are asked to come up with a campaign for a particular product. OK, now you are supposed to get X amount of reactions or you're supposed to get X amount of sampling. If it's a BTO, you go on the ground, you sample the product, it's a new product you are bringing up, you are coming up to. So you are given X amount of sampling, you are given X amount of feedback you are supposed to generate and all of that. So during my probationary report, I was given targets to meet and then I was able to achieve them. Without meeting these targets, I'm sure I wouldn't have been able to be retained as an employer. So basically that's how my provisional product went. And then also my in office activities, how I was relating with my fellow workers. I mean, you could you could have the best output, you could have the best attitude towards your work, you could deliver the best result. But if you are not impacting or you are not generally given a good feeling in the office, you wouldn't really be retained. So yes, in as much as you are performing on the job, you also have to try as much as possible to make sure you are at peace with those you are working with, you are playing well in the team and all of that. So yes, those are the some of the factors that.
Q: Well, this is truly insightful, right? So as a follow up question to that, I just want to know your relationship with your supervisor. How did you how, how are you organizing it? Was it were you just trying to work with him or her just based on formalities or you actually took some initiatives to actually, you know, make it a bit more informal which, which method worked for you best?
A: Well, I didn't mix. OK, so first of all, I understood that I was in the office for work and anybody I see around is a Co worker or is there basically for work. OK, but I'm human and there are some traits, some good traits you'd like to learn from your supervisors. So I kept it formal when I had to keep it formal. And then I went in formal when you know the mood or the situation called for it. For instance, I couldn't be formal when that the person was in a bad mood or the person had suffered a terrible loss. I couldn't go formal. OK. I had to be a bit sympathetic towards the situation and be a bit informal, go out of my way to offer some sort of sympathy to the person. And then also there were happy times in their life that they would have loved to celebrate it. I couldn't go formal. I couldn't say, Oh no, we are just coworkers. I can't just see you in the office and let it go. You had to reach out. You had to try and be human. So yes, I did a mix of both the formal and the informal approaches to towards my supervisors, yeah.
Q: Wow, wow. I'm really enjoying the conversation, you know, and I would just like to know what do you what do you dislike most about your job? It sounds interesting, but what do you dislike most about your job? I.
A: Can't say you dislike, but I think sometimes it gets difficult. Sometimes you get a brain drain, you get a creative block. You know, you need to come up with a new thing, you need to come up with a new strategy, you need to come up with a new concept. And it seems you have exhausted all the creativity in your head, OK, And your clients are waiting, your bosses are waiting for the next wow factor. So sometimes you get very difficult trying to get inspiration, especially when you are locked up in an office and being a creative. You need the environment to sort of give you some sort of inspiration. When you are locked up in an office, it becomes very difficult for you to get the inspiration. So I think that's, that's the only problem I have with my job. Brain, brain, a brain block, a creative stall and all of that. That is the only problem aside that I enjoy everything that comes with the stress, the trail, the uncertainty is about campaign, how well would go and all of that. It's, it's beautiful.
Q: Well, I can't even tell your enthusiasm even from the conversation you're having can see you really, you are really into this, right? But what actually influenced you to choose this path around what do you have a family member who was actually in this line of work? What actually influenced you?
A: Well, like I mentioned it later on, it's basically my passion. So I'm just chasing a passion and then I'm just trying to make money out of it. So I wasn't influenced by a person, Percy. I was just influenced by my intrinsic motivation, what I wanted to do. I sat down, did some sort some self introspection, and then I just decided to follow my passion and then try as much as possible to monetize it. So yeah, I'm just inspired by myself and what I I believe I can achieve in the creative space.
Q: Wow, wow, wow. For for me personally, I, I would, I would have to say this is the first time I'm actually engaging with someone in your space and I'm actually learning a lot from this, right. But when it comes to work life balance, right, how do you, how do you maintain a good strike? How do you maintain a good strike? Are you a family?
A: Man, of course.
Q: OK, hello family. So how do you maintain a strike between the two?
A: So I, I would always, you know, take you back to me being a creative, being a creative, you need to, to be as balanced as possible because you get inspired by the environment. You join inspiration from the environment. So you never know where you could find the next inspiration, right? So you try as much as possible to keep it balanced. You don't you don't, you're not so much into the job, yes, as your passion. You're supposed to be serious about it, but you need to know when to take a break. So I enjoy life with my family, my niece especially and my mum. I take breaks sometimes.  I sleep a lot as well.   I spend time, I try to spend quality time with my family. I don't, I don't make my life all about work, work, work, work. No, I balance it properly. I I spend time with my family. I take them out sometimes we have dinners sometimes we take a walk sometimes and we have sleep insurance. Sometimes we all gather and then have fun and sleep. Yeah. So that's our balance. My.
Q: Life that's some that's some great inside there that's some really great inside there, right. But I'm I'm also interested so here internally as a company, if you're making a decision, let's say there's an opportunity you want to pursue as a company, what is the decision making process like in here?
A: OK, so I believe as a team player that to each has to it his or her strength or her area of expertise, right? So I believe in team playing a lot. And I believe that each person is blessed with, let me say superior knowledge or superior know how in particular areas of this space we found out our ourselves in. So our decision making basically is, is generic is we, we make decisions as a team. OK, So I don't, I don't impose decisions on people. I don't impose things on, on my, my fellow workers. We sit down, we have a conversation as a team. We try to judge on so the judge on them.  We try to figure out how best we can, you know, solve things or we can go about things. And then we try as much as possible to also adopt best practices elsewhere. So like I said, people have superior knowledge or, or technical know how when it comes to some things. I, I am not all knowing like I'm not all doing as well. I believe in delegating and delegating efficiently. So within the team there are people who are very competent with some things. We sit down, we pick their minds on particular areas of expertise and then we make a decision as a team.
Q: Well, I'm, I'm asses. I really admire mindsets, right? You really have a positive mindset. So what's what you do? And I can see the results since I came here, I can see the results. You are really doing well as a company. You know, you are doing so well, say yeah. But I also want to know from your experience, OK, well, what is the idle work environment that boosts productivity the most?
A: OK, so the idle work environment for us as creatives as not making people feel small in their box, making every every, every person responsible for whichever activity he or he or she has been assigned to. So for me as as a superior or as a boss, I, I try to make people boost their morale app every time have them, you know, conceive positive mindset towards each and every assignment they are given.  We also motivate staff who, you know, I found one thing in some areas, we also try to educate them. We also try to empower them in a way. So the atmosphere in this office or in this company is more of a +1 is you can do it kind of thing. You can do it spirit and then teamwork. So we do we solve problems as a team. We we have fun as a team. We suffer as a team. We take hits and losses, though. I'm the boss. I, I take, you know, the major part of it, but that kind of what's it called the familial kind of thing, that kind of feeling that we have here. We, we approach everything as a team and as a family. So that is the kind of spirit we have here, the team spirit, team morale and then inspiring each other, challenging each other, positive, you know, healthy, healthy competition in here. That's the kind of attitude. We accept here or we, we, we have conceived in this company. Wow.
Q: Well, I, I, I can see you have a lot of documents on your decks, a lot of documents, right? I just I just want to know what is the normal working day like for you?
A: For me personally, are you asking for me personally?
Q: Yes, for you personally.
A: Oh well, my again as a critic, my day starts when I feel there's for for instance, so when I feel there is a lot of things to do, I come into the office very early, sometimes at six AMI try to sign off what I need to sign off. I try to take meetings that I'm supposed to take and then I try to delegate each assignment to whoever I believe is the most competent. OK, so that is normally how my day goes. If I do not have a lot of paperwork to do, I step out and then I try to supervise projects that have been done. I try to keep an eye on every project that has been done, for instance, like shoes, like campaigns, like events. I go around supervising and then making sure everything is in place. If there is no such thing, I just hit the playground with my children and then my nieces and then we have a good time and I also and treat my staff to take time off and then spend some time with family or spend some time doing what they enjoy doing.
Q: Wow, wow, you really inspired me very well. Like I can see you have a lot going on in your desk. Can also see some awards, some corporate awards that has been given to you, right? So I, I, I'm, I just want to know, I just want to know I, I'm, I'm also learning from this, right. But for now, what is your latest and greatest achievement in your role?
A: Well, my role for now, we won the best African film from the Cannes Digital awards. Cannes, I'm not sure I, I, I'm sure you know what Cannes says. Cannes is a film awarding scheme or whatever. He based in France. So that's our latest award for a movie, a short film that we did based around tourism and then patriotism. So that is our most recent award. But then we have, you know, gotten a couple of awards. I wouldn't say that to Brad, but we have got him quite a number of awards, which we are proud of as a team. We also look forward to, you know, raking in a few more awards just to feel good about ourselves.
Q: Yeah, I mean, I mean, from, from, from what I can see here, you guys are doing so well, right? And you really deserve it. You really deserve it. Yeah. And so just give me, I just want to confirm this. I can, I have some other questions, so few questions I would just like to ask. I understand you are very busy, so you can just finish this as soon as possible, right? So from your experience to OK, can you describe what you do? So here I mean in simple words as a company.
A: What do you do? We are creative agencies. So anything creative, I would say we are creative alchemist. OK. So anything when it comes to content generation like movies, like short films, like commercial TV commercials, like digital contents, when it comes to static graphics and then you know, moving graphics and all of that. We also do a bit of advertising. We also do a bit of media buying, so radio media buying, TV media buying. We do marketing as well. We devise marketing strategy. We do marketing campaigns, we do marketing events as well.  And then we also do sports management, so specifically in football agencies. So we are licensed FIFA agents. If we sport the talent, we try to connect this talent with the best bid bidder just to you know, push the talent as far as this talent can go. So this footballing talent can go. So that is that is the scope of our business. That is what we do here.
Q: Yeah, but but as a person, yeah, I'm really interested to actually know some of the things we did to actually contribute to your success, right, Because you are really a successful person, the kind of things you are doing and also the way you are pushing your company forward is really something to be admired, right, Right. So I want to know what are some practices that you do that you think anyone can actually employ and they can also like son in their role?
A: Right. So apprenticeship, I took time to be an apprentice. I learned under the best that I know.  I also understood time. I, I, I, I told myself that time edifies. So if you put in the time diligently, you will reap some, some good success at the end of it. But I believe in apprenticeship and being mentored by people in whom you can find very positive traits. So mentorship, apprenticeship and taking responsibility sometimes most of us really do not like to be held responsible, especially when things go South, when things go South. But being responsible and learning how to take the hits, sometimes learning how to be points to what you are now kind of strengthens your character. So those are the three. I mean, those are the stand out, you know, practices that I employed my, I have, I have employed my whole life and it has brought me where I am being subjecting yourself to apprenticeship, apprenticeship, understanding time and how time works, taking responsibility for everything. And then, you know, cultivating a very positive attitude everywhere, every time, being optimistic in every situation. Yeah.
Q: Wow, this is really interesting, right? So a follow up question on the time, right? You are really a busy person. You have a lot going on. You have family man, you are also a key decision maker in this business, right? Aside from this, you are also doing other stuff on the side. I can see your decks, you have a lot of document. So how do you manage time? Do you, do you have the same 24 hours we have or there there are some tricks to the trade? Can you share? Can you share some advice on that?
A: OK, so I obviously have 24 hours like everyone else, but I have a way of going about my things. There's this theory that I used. Just hold on a SEC. I want to show you that.Yeah. So basically what I do is I break my task into simple, simple once, and then I try to take them off my schedule one at a time. So for instance, if I know that I have so many meetings to take or I have so many things to accomplish, I take the easy ones. I start with the easy ones. Bit by bit I take them off my list. And then when I am quite ready, when I've had lunch and I feel strong, I tackle the most difficult 1. So it's just breaking down your tasks into simple ones and then achieving them bit by bit? Bit by bit, yeah. So that's how I manage my time and.
Q: And this method has really worked for you over the years. Yeah, yeah.
A: Of course, of course, of course.
Q: This is truly interesting. This is truly interesting if, if there are some advices you can not just one, but probably some few recommendations, some advice you would like to give someone who likes to actually come into your industry. Can you give, let's say three, if you're comfortable with three, solid advice that you think this person can move with?
A: OK, so first of all, in the creative space, the star is the sky is big enough for every star to shine. OK, you don't have to do what everybody's doing. You can be your own unique self and you can just find the unique selling proposition for yourself and then you do it. Second of all, passion without work is bullshit. I'm sorry. It's, it's nothing. So in as much as you're passionate about something, you need to understand that you need to work hard towards it, cultivate healthy working attitude towards it, cultivate a positive working attitude towards it. And then thirdly, it's teamwork and networking. So you need to be a very good team player. You need to respect and understand that people are well talented in things that you are not. People can be better than you are things and that's OK, OK. You need to understand that people actually have an upper hand in some things that you do not have, and you have to try as much as possible to make them responsible for those things in order to push you. OK, so you can go, you can, you can, you know, go alone when you're alone, you can go alone. But if you are in the team, you can go far and you can sustain properly. So yes, those are the things that I believe can be some sort of guiding principles for whoever wants to venture into this peace.
Q: Wow, wow.  I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm actually, I think I've already said this, but I have to reiterate it. I truly admire your mindset, right? You know, you have a positive mindset towards a lot of things and I just want to know from a philosophical standpoint, right? Hard work and working smart.  Which one do you think from your experience? What's best?
A: Well, I think working smart the hard way is what works for you. I mean, you can't outsmart everything in your life. Sometimes you need to put in the work, sometimes you need to be a fool and raise true challenges to hard work. But working smart also saves you a lot of time, which you can use to, you know, concentrate on other things. So I think a healthy blend of both, you know, you went to work hard at something and then you know, you went to work smart or something. When you are able to blend both properly, I think you you'd achieve some, some sort of success. You do? Yeah.
Q: Wow, this is really interesting. And for, for, for when it comes to people management, yeah, I can see you work with a lot of people. You engage with stakeholders outside the company. You have employees, people who respond to you. Yeah, how, how, how do you manage all these relationships? Because I also understand these people have expectations. Have you had any challenges in the past where you've had serious issues with stakeholders, people you work with? Of course. How did you handle it Sir of?
A: Course, one thing I've I've learnt throughout my career is that communication ions out a lot of things and people who do not know how to communicate what they are thinking or how they feel often have issues in life. So in my professional experience I have had, you know, sometimes where clients might have said they want this way, but it was communicated differently from their outfit. And we decided to go with their official communication and came out whoever is responsible, whoever is calling the shots didn't want it that way. So I have tried as much as possible to always ensure we all align on one particular direct in one particular direction, that communication is clear, we know what exactly we are doing. Secondly, like you mentioned, people management. People management also makes you learn that everybody's coming from a different background. People are coming from different people have different view viewpoints about life. People have different views about work. People are coming from, you know, diverse places. So you try as much as possible to accommodate them. And then I don't know if there's a right word, whip them in line towards the company vision and all of that. Because without the company, without the umbrella called company, you would never ever, I'm sure in your lifetime never meet those people. So you try as much as possible to elevate the company's mission and vision above all personal experiences. And then you chase the company's mission and vision. There will be problems. Obviously there'll be conflict. We are human. There'll be conflicts on one or two times. As a, as a manager, I try as much as possible to be fair and to be just. If you are wrong, I am going to tell you are wrong and you are going to suffer the consequences for, for being wrong. If you are right, I'm going to tell you are right. But in all, I try as much as possible to make everybody understand that we are all two in One Direction. We are all going in One Direction and we have to relegate our personal feelings, our personal experiences, everything to the background and to that particular life.
Q: You, you really have a lot of interesting perspective, very educated perspective on work, personal life, money, human relationship, right? And I'm truly learning a lot from you. But if you have to recommend some books, do you read some books? What books can you recommend?
A: Books, I have quite a number. I don't really remember the names, but I think 1 outstanding book that has always, you know, sort of been a guiding principle to me is poor wish that poor that I learned a lot right. I've read a lot of books. I don't really remember the titles, but I I pick and, you know, I filter through some of the things that I can learn. But one outstanding one for me is it made it made a profound. It left a profound impression on me since the time I've read it, and I still read it today. Even this morning I read it that for that. Yeah. I think it shapes your, your, your, your perspective of our life. It helps you understand that people might come from the same background but might have different opinions about things. People might be enjoying the same privileges but might have different opinions about life and different opinions about dreams and what is possible and what is not possible. So which that product?
Q: Wow, I'll, I'll try and get a copy immediately I leave this room, right, Try and get a copy and read and for the other books too. I'll see you on the side so we can just get recommendations on that, right. Thank you so much Mr. Fred for your time. I truly appreciate the insight we shared. You know we are doing a good work. Your company is really doing a good work, helping society, right, providing jobs, creating opportunities. We are really doing a good job Sir, and thank you so much for your time.
A: Thank you, Sir. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.
Q: You're welcome, Sir.
A: Enjoy your day.
Q: Thank you. Bye.