Q: Hi, how are you? 
A: I'm good, yeah.
Q: Do you mind tell me your name?
A: Yes, my name is Daniel Ali.
Q: Daniel Ali. OK, Nice. I think you've met before, right? Yes. OK. Do you mind telling me your country where you're from?
A: My country is Pakistan.
Q: OK. How long have you been in Russia? Saint Petersburg.
A: For six months now.
Q: You are studying in HSE.
A: Yes, ATC University Masters in Finance.
Q: Nice, nice, nice. OK, So I want to ask you a few questions for my project. It's about cultural codes. So I'll just take some few minutes of your time then. OK, we are done, I hope. Have you been working? Yes.
A: I have been trying to find work.
Q: OK. So you're in active employment now? Yes. OK, that's nice. For how long?
A: For like 4 months.
Q: Four months. Oh, that's nice.  What gets you excited about where you are working? What's motivates you? The.
A: The main motivation is to firstly taking care of family, which is the primary motive because that's the reason why I came here, and the second thing is to elevate professionally.
Q: That's great, that's nice to know. So what's motivates you to do your best at work?
A: At at work, sometimes it can be draining, but the first and foremost thing on the mind that motivates to get up on from bed and go to work is the family, because people are depending on me. That's the first thing.{ 1:51 }And the second thing is to be the best version the next day, not to be the a bad version from previously as comparison to previously that's.
Q: Nice, That's great. Yeah. Do you find difficult waking up from bed? You have had a lot of people complaining waking up, going to bed or going to work or going to school.
A: Yes, that is true. That is the most difficult part in Russia.
Q: It.
A: Is very difficult to get out of bed.
Q: Wow, interesting.     How has this rule been challenging you? I mean the wake, is it very challenging?
A: Yes, it is challenging it. It requires skills. It requires you to be patient as well. It requires you to go hard work. Everything is involved.
Q: OK, nice.        About your workplace, what you, I know you probably have a lot of people there. What surprises you about people that you work with?
A: What's the one?
Q: What surprises you about the people that you work with? Prices. Surprise, surprise surprises.
A: Yeah. What surprises is that it is that the people there are really supportive. I have not seen any politics like you see every organization or company or anywhere you work, there will be some leg pulling and stuff. Basically where we come from, every office is somebody tries to pull leg of somebody, but here is not the case. Everyone tries to just focus on their work and be supportive and some of their teammates need. So it's a really team work effort in I've seen here.
Q: OK, yeah. And I have an intrigue video. What do you like most or the least about the company you are working with?
A: Most at least yes, The most I like about my company is it's a it's a tough question.  The most I like is I can't remember like most I just I haven't noticed maybe.
Q: Oh, OK.
A: The most can be the supportive thing because people support each other. There's no hard feelings. Nobody wants you to not progress. And the least thing I find is that it's very challenging. They are on your head all the time about the progress or how much is it.
Q: OK. OK. That's great as it be a time that you've exceeded your expectation or exceeded the expectation of your bosses that you been awarded of praise before.
A: Yes, I have done this maybe one or two times but not much.  But notwise I try my best.
Q: Alright, that's good to know.     So let's say imagine you are going to start your own business. What would it be?
A: If I start my own business, that will be some export business. The first thing on my mind comes exporting clothes, like a brand of clothes I would start and export in Europe or U.S. market. First thing that comes to my mind.
Q: OK. OK. So do you intend to import from other country or you it will be like a locally manufactured?
A: Product locally manufactured from my one of my city that is known as cell code. It is the biggest exporting city of Asia.{ 5:52 }So it generates billions of rupees and dollars because it is largest exporting city in Asia. So we have good manufacturing industries there. So that's where I would manufacture and sell abroad, OK.
Q: Great, great, great.     I don't know if this one will be personal, but if you might answer decline, what are your plans for the next 5 years?
A: The next five years, the plan is not very decided yet. The plan for two years is decided. We had to complete studies in Russia. After studies, if I am able to find a good work here, I might think about staying. If not, then obviously we have to get back after the student visa expires. So depends on whatever comes to me.
Q: OK, OK.{ 6:53 }You're staying Russia here, Looking at their websites or the media that you normally visit which which? Which, Which ones do you visit the most on a regular basis? Which one do you visit the most?
A: So the most just as you might know that social media apps are mostly not working here. Yeah, so mostly I what I visit is Telegram because of work and studies. The second is the week here.
Q: The VK up OK, so Telegram I probably acquire test to the fact that every information is yes wasted that so you have to be active there to get information. Alright, to continue, how do you prefer to communicate with your coworkers?
A: Like on a text.
Q: Not.
A: On calls I don't prefer. On calls I cannot speak long.
Q: I see.    How do you respond to critics? People who criticize you, how do you respond to them?
A: I am kind of emotional person. So every person has different characteristics responding to critics. If somebody criticizes me, then I I get emotionally involved. I think both perspective bad and positive. I think about what the reason, what's the reason of critics might be the person is right or wrong. So it's 5050 then I take the decision for if he's right, I accept. If he's not right, I try to justify, but I justify very quickly.
Q: I see, interesting.Do you prefer working alone or in a team?
A: I prefer working in a team because if you're stuck somewhere, the team can guide you in difficult situations.
Q: So OK, OK, teamwork is what you prefer. So let's say you're at the work place in three ways. What do you think your manager would address you with?
A: Three ways.
Q: 3 weights.
A: 3 three ways, yeah.
Q: No weights.
A: OK, like.
Q: Like to report you or like describe you to someone? Probably someone has come to the workplace and is asking of you. In what way do you think your manager could describe you to the person? In three ways.
A: Like it can be anything or like, for example, if it's basically a question what he thinks about me, Yeah. So he might be saying just another normal employee or he might be saying that or the one who comes late or you might be saying or the one who is good at add communication. So it's a bit of mix.
Q: OK, OK, so in your own your in your own opinion I the hard working type.
A: In my opinion, I am hard working type, but makes with smart work I don't like go all the way in hard work. OK, at some point I try to make some smart work, try to find a shortcut.
Q: That's nice. So it's cut with hard work. Yeah. It's makes life easy sometimes. That's great.         The culture in your company, how do you describe it?
A: The culture is basically mostly dependent on teamwork, so everyone is supportive. Culture is dependent because it is a strict culture. Managers are strict, so they keep an eye on everything, so employees have to follow. So it's a strict culture but blended with teamwork.
Q: OK, So is he, are there Russians, other citizens of other countries mixed up or is just mixed up? It's mixed up.{ 11:00 }OK.        How do you think your managers manage conflicts in the workplace? Has there ever been a situation whereby they have to?
A: No, I have never faced that kind of situation. I have never judged that OK.
Q: Given the opportunity, would you like to change something about the workplace?
A: No.
Q: OK, everything is on.
A: Point simply no, because I have not yet thought of that so far.
Q: OK, how do you handle tight deadlines?
A: Tight deadlines are a burden to my head.{ 11:57 }They remain on my head all the time and create stress. So how I handle is that just try to solve as quickly as possible as.
Q: Quickly as possible.        How? How? What does work life balance mean to you?
A: Work life balance is I am a bit of lazy person so I want my life to be as easy as possible and I want my work not to affect my personal life. So I just want to when I go to work and when I come out of work, I don't wanna think about it. That's how I think of it.
Q: OK, what's what? What do you think is the secret to productivity?
A: Secret to productivity It can be different in my in my opinion can differ from others.{ 12:51 }But the secret for productivity is to to explain and make your brain or mind understand that there is no easy ways to progress. So if your mind connects and picks that up it will push you to work hard and along with finding smart ways to do hard work. So. But if you explain your brain that it can be done, it will be done.
Q: OK. OK. So to the next one, the leadership and management. Management style, how will you describe the the leadership style in your company?
A: The leadership is autocratic. 1 dialect. Very hard. Very hard, yes.
Q: You don't have any other option that will be.
A: No. Yes, but I think Democratic is better than that.  We had a manager before who was people oriented so his leadership style was the best and he's really appreciated by everyone unless the one who is current who is very strict.
Q: OK. I think the next question you've answered it already, that's you tell us about the leader you've worked with that you really admire. So just covered that one.     OK. Can you share an example of a time when you collaborated with a colleague from diverse backgrounds to achieve a common goal?
A: Yes, oh, so I have worked with diverse people. So I have done some tasks where I had to do work with international people. So everyone is helpful and I have been fortunate enough to share experiences with them and share some time with them.
Q: OK, I think it's on to if I said, but let me ask again, what's management multiple to do your basically like?
A: People oriented like put your trust in me and I will do produce result.
Q: Excellent. Excellent what? What type of learner are you like?
A: Very quick learner, very quick.
Q: Learner, Do you like the visual aspect of learning too?
A: No, like I just like provide me training and I want to do not like stories and stuff or visual representation like figures and stuff. Just provide me to the point basic training and I will go about it.
Q: OK.When was the last time you took a risk professionally? Risk, yes.
A: Professionally, it's like previous month I lost $2000.  I took a risk in business, in crypto business, I invested in some crypto coins and I lost value.{ 15:54 }And then I got an experience that it is basically to rob poor people, poor people like us.
Q: I see.
A: The risk was not very good for me. But thinking about it professionally in a business, if I would have invested in some stocks, I would have researched about it, whether to buy it or not, that's different case, OK, I haven't taken that risk.
Q: Interesting conversation. What advice would you give to someone starting life in your career Starting.
A: Life in my career, yeah, I will advise him to just be patient and keep working hard, not find ways to cut corners or cut time just to get early at home or waste time. So I would advise that be patient, work hard and it will produce results for you.
Q: Work hard, yeah. Why do you? Why are you willing to advise a person to work smarts also?
A: Work working smart is also because sometimes it can get you better results than your colleagues because if for example, five people are doing something and one people just acts emotionally and tries to gain trust of employee. He has worked the same way as four others, but he has he's in the eyes of the manager or the owner that this guy is, you know, attached to me and stuff. Maybe produce an advantage or smart work can be in other ways can be like find a short way to achieve that result in better time.
Q: OK, I understand you.How? How do you stay organized?
A: I don't stay organized. Simple answer, like I say, very disorganized. But in the office I stay organized because people are watching.{ 17:57 }So the answer to the question is the reason is if people are watching then I stay organized.
Q: OK, OK.      How will you describe yourself? An introvert or extrovert? Extrovert.
A: Very big extrovert.
Q: OK, why?
A: It's because I am very emotionally expressive. I make friends very easily. I'm a friendly type of person. Anybody can talk to me about anybody and I enjoy learning about them and their lives what is going on. I try to learn from whatever mistakes they have made and try to attain positivities from them.
Q: OK, at this current stage of your career, do you see yourself as a mentee or a mentor?
A: I see myself as both basically a mentor for previous my juniors and my relatives who were young trying to come in, try to come abroad for ways to finding ways a mentor for them but mentee for the people who were trying to help me in studies and work to find better progress in life. Both basically.
Q: OK. And how do you contribute to fostering a positive and inclusive team environment?  How?
A: Do I contribute?
Q: Yeah.
A: So I, I don't contribute like environmentally, I like, I don't smoke. Maybe that's a contribution to environment or, but other than that, if there is a workplace environment, if we talk about that, I try to just be happy and be friendly with everyone so that there's a positive work environment and everyone is happy to talk to me or stuff.
Q: OK, can you describe a time you face a challenge at work and how did you handle it?
A: I I did. I did face a big challenge when I was not mentally accepting that I want to do the work anymore because I was tired there. That was a phase there. Everyone faces that phase about when the person does the job after some months, he thinks like he doesn't want to do it anymore or tries to change it. But then I I thought, I have to be sincere with myself. People are depending on me. I have to continue. So that's how I then overcame that.
Q: OK.Are you a follower or a leader?
A: I am not a follower, strictly not a follower. I I don't know if I'm a leader because I want to be a leader. I don't know if I'm yet.
Q: OK, great. I understand what you mean.{ 21:00 }How do you understand that the job is being done well, like achieving your company's goal, performing at the right direction?
A: Right. So when there is a task given and when achieved that, so I'm in a Peace of Mind. So I know that I've done it. Well, sometimes it can be the IT cannot be the exactly the same way you want it, but it's 8090% of the time accurate, correct?     How?
Q: Do you understand that the job is being done well?
A: So I don't have a basically an answer to that because the the work I do or just and if you compare it work and studies both, if they have there's a task given you act accordingly and just that's it. There's an intuition kind of thing. OK, I've done it.{ 21:56 }I don't give it a thought that if I did it very good or amazing or everyday very bad, I've done it, it's done. I don't want to put more efforts into that.
Q: OK, OK.   What is the right way to make decision in your work? Like how do I put it? What is the right way to make like good decision in your work please so.
A: The right way is just keep trying. When it is done, you can ask your teammates or your immediate supervisor that have done something. Can you review? Basically, asking for people's opinion can help you make a good decision.
Q: OK, can you describe your latest achievements in your workplace, either big or small?
A: Yeah, I haven't achieved that much, but in small achievements I have. I'm a good, I'm good at communication. So when my company asked to speak with somebody, which is their important time, so I speak well. I, I behave well. I'm professional at communication. So my clients enjoy speaking to me. So that's an advantage. So that's a bit of achievement for me.
Q: OK, great.   Can you describe your usual working day?
A: Usual work.
Q: Usual working day.
A: Working day, yeah, it's yeah. Monday to Friday off same time.
Q: Yeah, like, let's say you get to the office, What you have to do the like the routine.
A: Yeah, I just go to work and I firstly I want to just relax at my seat for some time and try to get the vibe of workplace and then start working.{ 23:57 }And then after a few, after a few couple of hours, I want something to eat. And then I I eat something and then I want coffee to to stay awake to be focused and then work again for a couple of hours, then eat something again and then couple of hours more and then off.
Q: OK, interesting.   Your place of work, the one you are currently at compared to the previous one, How will you describe them like your?
A: Like which is.
Q: Better yeah. Which is better management style and then your Co workers?
A: Company that work was very far better because firstly it was British company and the second thing was it was a very good style of leadership there. So people were very supportive and the managers were very good trying to make you learn all the time and in a very friendly environment.{ 24:55 }They would understand you, what your needs are and they would ask from you where you lack or and in a very friendly way, not in a threatening way that they're going to do something 'cause they understood understand you and that was very.
Q: OK, do you mind describing what your company does in general, not their sensitive aspect of it?
A: Yeah, it's just the client management, not much, just like normal company client management.
Q: OK, do in most Staffs course, yeah, you visit your clients or something?
A: No, just speak with clients.
Q: OK, OK, that's interesting.  I think that will be that will be all for now. Yeah. What advice will you give to someone wanting to be in your company?
A: The advice? You just try to find a job online and you can you're if you're lucky, you can find it.
Q: OK.
A: That's the best advice I can give.
Q: Just a quick one, do you like Russia?
A: Yeah, I'm loving Russia. Russia is very good and it's very, it's exceeded my expectation in progress. They're making good progress and it's very good. I'm enjoying my time.
Q: I've been going out to have fun. Yeah, sometimes.
A: Not much, but sometimes when friends are in the mood then not much. I don't go out much.
Q: OK. Have you visited any of the places? Beautiful places? Yeah, visited the.
A: Museums and I visited the rivers. Neva River is very good and everything is good. Like you just walk on the street is good.
Q: I see, How will you describe the cost of living here compared to your country?
A: It's expensive because maybe it's the city, it's Saint Petersburg. That's why it's expensive. But it is very expensive. Not easy to stay here.
Q: OK, great. Great. Alright, thank you very much. Think that will be all for now. I I am grateful for your time.
A: Thank you.
Q: So much. I appreciate it. Thank you very much.