Q: My name is Suraj and I'm a student at HSE pursing masters at International Business in Asia Pacific Region and I'm here to conduct a interview for my project. So can you tell me a little about yourself like background?
A: So my background, can I say that I'm not a student here? Yeah, I'm student here in HSE 2 and I'm doing data analytics for business and economics. Previously I was graduate from accounting in Indonesia and then I'm coming here. I was before coming here, I, I was an HR in a government industry company for almost two years. I'm coming here and then I'm now working in one of the Russian company in Russia.
Q: So what do you do? What is your role at this current working place?
A: Mmm The responsibility is very narrow that I am now playing the role as a customer services, as a customer service in a company and I responsibility. I am responsible for maintain and solve clients issues relating our products and also mmm fallout, maybe escalating any problem related to our products that is accurate in the client side to our DP department.
Q: OK, So what do you enjoy most about your work?
A: The thing is I really enjoy when I able to solve things from for any clients issue you see, because when they're happy I also getting some fell. I feel kind of happy too because I I am able to help them kind.
Q: A Kind of satisfaction.
A: Yeah, client satisfaction. It is also satisfying me. But then you see client clients are clients because when they are not happy, they are not happy and they're gonna I would say they somehow abusive, they somehow abusive and then yeah, they satisfy when you're going down and it also affect my rate in company. So yeah, I really in enjoy when able to solve that problem.
Q: Great. So can you walk me through a typical day at your work?   Like since morning?
A: Mmm. OK.
Q: On an average, what do you do?
A: OK, sure. So then it's actually one job all the time because I, I mostly replying to clients issue and clients question or anything related to our products and following up any information from our team to them. So then mostly when I'm coming to work, I'll log in into our systems and then I'm ready to chat with them because I'm, I'm working in replying chats and emails. So then if they what is it? If they assign me this morning for chats from 9:00 to 10:00 I will go for chat from 9:00 to 10:00 and if they wanted me to do emails and to play in some clients emails I will do emails from any hours but then I am available for both.
Q: Oh great. As far as I understood your work, your company works for customer support, but what excites you about being part of this company?
A: I don't really. Aaa. The thing is, I really happy with the environment. Yeah, even sometimes you see, this is frustrating. I would say desperate because I, I don't know, I, I couldn't reassure any, reassure all of them all the time because they are somehow angry and they're not happy and I couldn't reassure all of them. But then I also happy that I am having an environment, a very good environment of my offices. So then they provide any needs like good view because we have that and we have aaa for like snacks, food kind of like that. It also helps to cheer up some bad days. So yeah. And they are really supportive and I really understand that. I understand that I am a student and then and I will need some adjustment, which they are allow me to and really supportive. So I'm happy being this part of the team, being the part of the support of team.
Q: OK. So as you said, you have been working in this company. So how do you know that you have succeeded in your role, that you have done something really great?
A: Yes.
Q: Up to your company expectation.
A: OK, aaa from the beginning they really aaa how to say they really guide me from scratch. They really take times takes aaa time to, to introduce any workflow and the product knowledge and they're really investing in that. And they I would say they succeed because they set the clear, the clear goals to every employee. So this is what you need to achieve. This is the KPI do you need to achieve. This is the metrics every month and this is your performance every month. And every time I see my KPIs or scorecards and every performance assessment every month, I will I will see that all okay as I achieved this, achieve that. So then every time I saw that I am achieved those metrics, achieved those KPIs, I feel like I am succeeding in my role again, that is for the KPI or the company side. But then for myself personally, I would say that when I am able to talk with them, not as you see, there's a lot of kind of robot, yeah. So then when I can communicate with them and showing that I am a human agent, easy, because they are tired of these robots and they can feel some emotion, they can reveal the emotion. There is also the sign of me succeeding in this role. So yeah, those are the things.
Q: OK. So can you say any such moment when you feel particularly very successful or satisfied working at your place?
A: The thing aaaa we are kind of an app application our our products kind of application, so that when they don't have how to login in this, how to login in that, I really have these difficulties. I think I'll give up how hehe they come to us. They come to me desperately don't know what to do about this app. Something I said OK, Sir, you need to do this. You need to do that. Let's check your connection for us and let's check your how to set the storage in your phone that is can run our products very well. So OK, Oh, oh,  it's not working. OK, then it's good. You, you can now work on the app as you wanted to. You are now succeed to login, you know, free to use the app. OK, then there is the moment when I feel satisfied when they I, I tried to resolve that problem and it is, it is resolved. So then, yeah, it is the happy moment for me.
Q: OK, great. And what about your probation period? Does your company supported you in reaching those goals or making you familiar about the new working environment?
A: Mmm. Sorry, come again?
Q: About your professionally create Has your company supported you in reaching those rules and?
A: Yeah, through.
Q: Satisfaction or making you familiar with the environment of the company because you were new in a company and a different country.
A: OK, actually this is what I adore about my company because they are really supportive. I want to have this low customer satisfaction rate. They set the goals for like no they set the KPS for like 72% because they know there is not really possible to achieve the very high customer satisfaction because you see the satisfaction is based on their mood. Even if you are meant to the product, you are meant to the customer service. So then when they see that my CSAT rate is low, they are, they are provide some how to say some lecture and then also some training to to improve this to see where I can where I need to improve to gain this satisfaction rate from the customer. So then they don't really point out that you are low, you have low rate, you have the performance this month, but then also they provide the solution for that, they provide some training for that. So they are really support us to achieve these goals, to achieve these goals, yes.
Q: Quite good. So, can you share an example when you feel that your company is really satisfied with your work or you are doing really well done?
A: For that, our chat is also assessed by the quality assurance department. So then when they see some spot that I really not quite well in it for like for example the product knowledge something like that or I miss guidelines and provide wrong solution for the customer. It happens. And then these quality assurance is helping me to do some better things to to give better information to give what, what really needs to to be guide in this particular case, for example, something like that. And then they are really satisfied when they are again about this, they really provided they spend sometimes in the work hour and they are invest in that. So you see there I, I, I'm again mention that they're not really point out this is your flaws here this month. But then they also provided trainings how to resolve the flaws that you had.
Q: OK, great. Now we are going to cover cultural adaptation and challenges. So I can also relate to this because I'm also from Asia and you are also from Indonesia. So how has it been for you to adapt a new working environment in Russia?
A: To be honest, it is really.
Q: Challenging.
A: Challenging.
Q: Of course, I agree.
A: Difficult to these days actually, because I I see that when they are really talking to us or being friends. I'm not really looking for friend in this company. But then somehow I feel like only not quiet. I've been quiet this whole day. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe that's the good word, isolated. That is the perfect word for this, because when all when all of them really speak in English, but then they don't really care to have you see, that was straightforward and then don't really like chit chat.  Yes. So then when you when you don't really have things to talk about to them, you don't talk. And in that day when you don't have to talk, when you don't have any crucial question to the senior, to your manager, you can fly the whole day without saying any words. Something like that. Yeah, because they are Co workers, but they also being friends they themselves. But for us as outline outsiders, yeah, I would say they don't really having aaa having this willing to make friends. I had but not all of them, but I had this one coworkers that is really talk to me outside work aaa and then he resigning. I was really feel feel bad hehe because I don't really have that kind of friend friend, not really not to be that connected, but then at least at the workplace I would I would wanted someone to talk about to talk to outside work, but then I also not really not really murderous, but still looking at them talking being friends. Aaa  It's somehow kind of quiet.
Q: And is this guy Russian?
A: Yes, this guy is.
Q: Russian.   I also feel the same working at my office.  However, I want to make some kind of conversation. It's really very hard.
A: It is. Haha.
Q: Is and now I have given up so I don't even try.
A: Yeah, so I'm not even trying anymore.
Q: Yeah, I'm not.
A: Able to. So, OK, I completely agree with you. Yeah.
Q: Yeah. So did you experience any cultural sock? If you can share an example.
A: Maybe joining this Russian culture since the school, yeah, I don't really shop that much. But then I, I tried, you see that I tried to make friends in the beginning and then I again realised that OK, it's the same thing what's happened at school. They don't really like chit chat and they don't really even they are talking in English, speaking in English, they don't really open to that. They don't really open to have chit chat aaa and make friends with foreigner. I would say because we are not international student there, but we are foreigner worker. So then aaa yeah.
Q: So this is also about your challenge. So how did you overcome the those challenges, these challenges? I mean, how you make up your mind that I have to work in this environment? It's OK. So how you prepare yourself?  It is hard, I know, because the Asians love to socialise.
A: Exactly.
Q: I know and this is individual writing so they don't want to communicate a lot and they are quite reserved. So how hard it is? I need to you can give us some details about this.
A: Initially that I really how to say I really good for this new environment. I really love new environment because this is always attractive, good offices, good salary motivates me. But then also deep down even we don't have any problem with them. I still trying to keep up the stroke at least some motivation inside me. Even I don't have to talk because I don't have to socialise with them because they don't want to, but I tried and then they don't want to do that. So OK, for the first three months because I was still in probation, yes. So everyone still knows that everyone quite welcome and nice. They are nice, they are good, they are kind, but they don't really open to that connection. Maybe outside, outside work. So then I just prepare myself, OK, I'm just coming there, homework, that's it. So there's no motivation for me keeping this job until at least I graduate, and then, yeah.
Q: OK, I understand.  So how aa do you like to work with your supervisor at your company?
A: Somehow I feel like she is not fair.
Q: She's not fair.
A: Somehow something like that. Sometimes, yeah, sometimes. How so? Because I am a student and I don't feel like and I am Asian and I don't feel like to bother my manager that much because I had this experience where my manager don't really talk to me or talk to us as a subordinates. And then, I don't know, I'm still having this kind of awkwardness about these.  I feel like they are really chill with the manager, right? Like in this Russian culture, they are not. No gaps.  Yeah, not the hierarchy. So then they still can talk with the manager, but not for me because we are as in.
Q: You still have this kind of hesitation.
A: Exactly which is.
Q: From Indonesia, yeah. For me also. I also used to call my manager, Sir, Ma'am. Yeah. Then he asked me not to do.
A: So exactly, yeah.
Q: So sometimes I have, I have. It's like my reflex accent. Yeah. So I say that's our ma'am. So yeah, yeah. There always starts. No, no, no. You can call by me my name.
A: Exactly. Yeah, that's the thing. But.
Q: It's still in my subconscious mind so sometimes I say so. However I tried not to do but still it comes sometimes. I can relate to this.
A: Like it just comes naturally for me. Yeah, it's a reflex. Yeah, it is. And then and since she is Russian and it happens on time and I tried to make up my what is it changing my schedule? Because I work in two departments. I work in Indonesian departments and then I work in English departments. So then when I wanted to change my schedule, I need to align it with what is it with the Indonesian department, which is the Indonesian department mostly in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. And I am the only Indonesian department here in Russia. So then when I'm trying to do that, I always feel like huge burden for me to ask for, for something like that small maybe because I feel like, OK, I need to be good here. I don't need aa I can't be don't ask too much for from them, even they are willing to give. Don't ask too much from them and don't be a troublesome in this in this team. So yeah, just be good, perform well, but do your job. So yeah.
Q: So you are trying to be a nice person.
A: Yeah, I'm trying to, aa but then I feel like aaa. The Russian in my team can easily talk and easily how to say laughing with my manager, but then I can't. I can't make some jokes. But then OK, then don't do that. Then when you can't, let's just do the job and that's all. So yeah.
Q: So as far as I understand you work in a multicultural setting, So what communication style would you prefer at this somebody?
A: So then I really like to how they are communicate right now, but I suppose, or maybe I believe that it will be more comfortable for me if they are more friendly in some way because our talk about, I don't really like to talk about private things, but then at least to aaa have some chit chats again, because to to not to to make me feel less isolated in in the office setting, because not to mention that they're really having fun together somewhere because we really have a lot of corporate event. And then I found myself like I will be ending up with those foreigner Co workers again like what I have here in HSE school. We will always having close connection with another foreign international student. So then also what happened in the what is it in the office? So yeah.
Q: So does these all these things affect your working like your productivity at your work? Do you think it affects?
A: Mm. For me personally it is not really affected because the work and the workflow and the way we communicate in our office is based on English, it is English, everything is in English.  Aaa. So then for my productivity it is not really affected, but maybe some personal.
Q: I mean to say like psychological effect.
A: Aaa psychological maybe some motivation because when I heard my guy was resigning, I was already motivated for some weeks. Aa. It can be more cheerful for me in the world because I can laughing with him about clients, some funny clients that we don't have to share with all those employees, but at least to one colleague at at the work. It can be very helpful for me or maybe at least with this guy, which I I was close and then it's psychologically affected, but not really that affects me. So then yeah. Aa But overall it it's not supposed to be affected.
Q: That's great. You are a very brave.
A: Yeah, exactly. I overcome this, yeah.
Q: You overcome very fast. OK, so where do you see yourself in next 3-4 years?   In this company or apart from this company, your future.
A: That is kind of challenging question and but this good too that is help me to realise that I haven't really thought about this but so far I still like this company and I really you know in a even when they're not really in this connection as a friend. Maybe I wouldn't be a friend of them but then somehow that really support our well-being. What is it?  Yeah, they're really supportive in that way. And they also another way aa they support me to provide Russian language courses, which really help to socialise with them because somehow sometimes when I speaking some Russian, they kind of laugh in it. But they also like, you're so cute. You speak Russian like that, but you're good, you're good. You have the action, the accent. So then if I can maintain my performance, I would stick with this company for at least another two years because I'm now just eight months. Nine months maybe. Yeah, but another, if I don't know, I'm still thinking to be a lecturer.  So then if another offer comes to me which is better or what, maybe I would consider that. But as far as I see now, I like this company. I'm being comfortable with this, even with those challenges. I don't mind because now I'm settling as yours.  I won't even try anymore. So then just solve it. Go there, do your job, get paid, and go home.
Q: Minding your own business.
A: Business, yeah, that's the thing. So then since maybe I would say I would stick with this company, they also actually I like about this company, they they said absolutely past career development. So then if then I don't really, if I feel frustrated at some point being a customer service because I don't, I can't handle the clients anymore and I'm studying data analytics, maybe I can do the internal competition to, to join the data analytics team. So it is also possible. So yeah, maybe aa I have to see my opportunity in this company, which is really good. Aa  I would stick with them. At least I would say that's very.
Q: Your company is really supportive as I can understand.  So thank you so much for sharing your thoughts. If you have any question for me or if you would like to say something else, feel free to and.
A: Aaa. I would say that you are from India, right? Yeah. We don't really have Indian in our office but we have Pakistani and I I'm sure they are similar with yours, the culture. No?
Q: Of course, if you have the same culture, yeah, more or less because we, we want the same country.
A: Aa. Yeah, again when I say that I ended up with what is it with another foreigner Co workers, I end up with Indian, which is really good and they're really fun. So then I feel comfort with them. So not being friend with Russian or not having any private connection with Russian is not really aaa affected because I balance it with haha another. You see another part of the office. So yeah, it it is good and but the challenge is there so I can overcome the challenge with the good things with being friends with another foreign coworkers. So then I don't feel like isolated that much.
Q: More specifically, Asian, yes, because we have same culture. We really like to socialise.
A: Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the thing.
Q: Yeah. And in Russia they are like individual type of society. So as I understood and I made me understood, that it is their way of life and is their way of working, is a way of culture. So I should not judge them on my basis. So as I'm in Russia, in their country, I should be comfortable.
A: With them align, yeah.
Q: Align with them. So for me also, in the beginning it was really uncomfortable.
A: At the beginning.
Q: Very, very. I can't express how hard it was for me.   Yeah, every after 30 minutes I felt like I wanted to have communication with someone.
A: I.
Q: Was I was like so hungry for having such kind of communication, like a bit of justice, one line or two line. But then I find no one to talk because they are really busy in their work or they don't like this like small chitchat between their work.
A: So.
Q: Slowly, slowly, I also.
A: Get used to get.
Q: Used to the culture and I am now able to walk for almost like 7-8 hours. Got stopped without having any conversations just in lunch somehow. That's it. That's a quite relatable story for us.
A: Exactly it is what is it? Aa. We are going to the same.
Q: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I talked to a lot of people and they also have the same experience.
A: But it is not it is not to see that they are not open or they are aaa really mean of fears. They're not, but they're really open. When you have something important and something question related to the work, they they're gonna stop the work. They're really going to have full attention to your question, which is really good. But maybe in the socialise as you mentioned again is this is their way of life?
Q: Yeah, we can understand like this also like they can say suppose if they are working in a Haitian room so they can say why these guys talk a lot so you can understand in this way also they can also complain why these guys in between of work talk a lot do chit chat. So for them it could weird for us it is weird. So we had trying to just somehow.
A: Balance, yeah, in different it's really interesting that you have this interview, which I really thankful because I never had thought about this specifically and sitting in my in my room how to say contemplating about what I aaa what I overcome to this far around nine months, nine months, yeah.
Q: Quite a lot of time.
A: It is, but then yeah, when you ask this question, it made me realise that oh OK, that I'm now getting used to their way of life again. So yeah, this is good. Thank you for the interview.
Q: Thank you. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you so much. It was really fun. Hehe.
A: Good luck with your interview.
Q: Projects. Thank you. Thank you.