Q: Hello! Nice to meet you! First of all, describe what you do at your current position?
A: Hi Kermen! Nice to meet you too! I`m currently working as a marketing manager in an international company in Moscow, more precisely my job is PM - product manager. As our company mainly works in the 3C filed (computer, communication and consumer electronics), so our job are in high relation with consumers, electronic products, etc. As a product manager, we must know everything of the product like a developer, and find the most effective way to let more consumers know about it, like it and then buy it!
Q: What gets you excited about coming to work?
A: Oh as a new MKTer, I found everything in this field is quite interesting to me! The first thing should be the designs and graphic. Actually in an international company, all the media posters you see on the streets or in the shopping mall (we call it OOH - out of home) are not produced by local team. We have a central kitchen, like our colleagues from China do all the designing stuff, and we do localization & translation based on Russian culture and customs. I found this process quite fun because I'm involved in a mass of intercultural communication and re-creation. 
And secondly, I found actually the industry always keeps pace with the times. E.g., nowadays the AI is such a heated topic, and naturally we even start to use AI tools to help improve our advertisement performance! I can make an example here, we have collaboration with Yandex, they offer us a kind of AI tool, which lets your target audience see their own personalized ad text when doing search! It's totally based on AI algorithm, like there are a thousand Hamlets in a thousand people's eyes. New technology always drives me excited!
Q: What do you like most about working in Russia? Is there anything you would like to change?
A: There's one thing I like most but also I hope to change. Most Russian colleagues work strictly to their schedules. I suppose it's more like a different lifestyle between Chinese and Russian. The good thing is that I will not be bothered by Russian customers/partners after work time (except for my Chinese colleagues, we're really a hard-working type). The not very pleasant side is that if we have some urgent tasks to do, I can not depend on them.
Q: What surprises people about you?
A: Maybe also related to my last reply, my hard-working?) If I'm really interested into something or I feel high responsibility upon myself, I'll spend many time on it, focusing on how to improve my performance, how to make it best among the others, etc. One time I even stayed up to 3 a.m. to finish one review work. Many colleagues were shocked after hearing this, and of course I received high compliment from management team)
Q: Speaking of that, what would be your ideal work schedule?
A: Actually I realized it's not really a good way for career, now I know you can show your own shortcomings, and then leaders will see how you grow and where your developing space is. Definitely from or after 9:30, if ideally, to 17:30)) Most ideally, 4 days a week) but btw I cannot accept work from home, I'll lie in bed and ruin all day.
Q: How do you handle stress?
A: Until now I cannot really get along with stress. But I've learnt how to release it, like just staying with my friend, and getting myself out of being alone. That really helps. Also doing cleaning and cooking makes me feel better in the days.
Q: Can you share an example when you collaborated with colleagues with different cultural backgrounds to achieve a common goal?
A: For instance when we're choosing the most suitable translation for localized materials from English to Russian, we'll hold a group meeting. We'll have everyone sharing their opinions and voting for their preferred translations. And we do the calculation. The top version will be used in the following work. So now you see every slogan of our products are the results of collaborated work.
Q: What role does kindness/empathy/humor play at work?
A: I'll pick humor: that helps when communicating. Appropriate humor can quickly bring you closer to the other person, which is very necessary at work. Work isn't only about the things you do, but most importantly the way you are and how you interact with others.
Q: Thank you for sharing your thoughts and insights about your working experience here in Russia. I wish you all the best!
A: Thank you very much!