Q: OK. So Dimitri, yeah, thank you for having me. I want to know in general what you do at your company.
A: When I when I worked in company I worked as System Administrator.
Q: OK, that's nice. So I want to know how do you describe your working environment? How does it look like your relationship with other workers? How does the environment look like where you work?
A: I must say that it was usual office that I can't provide. I can't have some distant work. I worked full time psychic and it was as usual of his.  What's it OK? Yeah, yeah.
Q: It's all it's it's, it's a usual place.
A: Yes, it is was in my opinion usual place where people may work. But yeah, yes.
Q: OK, so if I may ask Eddie, if you go to work, can you describe to me how your working day looks like in a particular day?
A: Yeah, OK. I worked when I work I work from 9:00 AM to from 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM And yes when I arrived to work I did different tasks in day what may what may for example project manager give to me it was yes, but usually I work on my own.  When I was a System Administrator, I solves different technical problems in this. If equipment, if stuff, if different system psychologist OK.
Q: All right, all right. So may I know aside your current place that you are working? Have you worked some way before?
A: But now, but now if you say about now I only if before I work in also as I said, assistant administrator, but also as in marketing also. Yeah. So you may ask me again if I didn't understand.
Q: Yeah, I was. I just wanted to know if we have worked with multiple companies. Yeah. Have you?
A: I have no very big experience, I work maybe if three companies for maximum.
Q: Four companies. So may I know any latest achievements that you have currently achieved at your current working place? Is there any difference between your old place and where you are working currently? Do you see anything different in terms of working conditions and other stuff?
A: Now I have no as much amount of what's it full time job. It's more a distant if you say about now, but I have as part time maybe job, but I work in HR startup. But I work with how to say it.   The friendly tasks distant when I for example, yes, before I worked sometime full time for two years maybe. But yes I worked but from 9:00 AM to 6:00 PMI should work. Now I do want to get some tasks and it is why I may not. I may not have regular salary because it's more about they pay me when I do something. They wait me tasks before we pay me for time but I worked but now we pay me for some OK I would do I can't say yeah but you may ask any questions so so.
Q: So in terms of maybe your previous place, maybe you were given a time for, let's say when, when, when you achieve target, when you achieve A tag, maybe they give you bonuses. Is it the same at your current place?
A: Yeah, I will say if you say about previous place of work when I worked as full time, it is not much about keep your eyes something, I may come only work my hours and go home with some salary. It is more about not visible effect I can.  It is more about that if I want to have promotion, yes I may, I should work much more. But now when I have this part time job they pay me only when I do something. It is not about I have no I have no how to say it even say about promotion when it is horizontal line, but it's not what I maybe how to say it middle or senior even say about some graduation. Now I only do tasks what they give me and at least they pay alright.
Q: Very, very insightful. So I want to know from your personal point of view, is there any standard? Is there any for reasons you are talking about KPI's, is there any key indicators for you to measure your success? Like OK, so for reasons this task, this task I'm being available to achieved my purpose. You do have anything like that? How do you measure if you have succeeded?
A: But you said about me, you say that keep us what I provide to me or provide, for example, my work. How's it you say about what I keep us from what I?
Q: Yeah, I want to know if you have a personal standards that you use to measure your performance.
A: If it's a person, when OK? What when person who gave me, who gave me task is clearly satisfied with my work. For me it is very good. It is more about people, but people give whom I am working. But we are very glad that I provided what we wanted. Maybe also sometimes I think about I did, but I did work on some product itself. But I must say that now I increased, for example, income for of company. I usually I didn't do some big aims as this. I was some small, I promise my small work. Sometimes this may be not visible, but for me, I may see success when yeah, OK, when people said that it's working, but no, I I may see. But OK, we're very increasing in numbers something as this, but usually I if say about me, I, I try to see people's opinion about my work. Oh.
Q: OK, OK, that's good. That's good. Meaning you take into consideration what other people will say about your work, then you get to know that you have succeeded. Yeah. So I want to know, again, from your workplace, how is your relationship with your supervisors? How do you relate with them?
A: You say about how I communicate.
Q: Yeah, how you communicate with your supervisors.
A: It was different from my experience.  Now my supervisors try saying you that you are colleagues, something sweet they say to me. But you may but I may say when how to say it.   I may speak when we were freely not polite, but we are colleagues that we may be very higher in their hierarchy of in company. But you may ask anything something because we but we want to be something similar. It is some strategy in my passport when I worked where was no where was St. hierarchy. But if he's director, he's director. He wanted to, but I should speak to him politely. Yeah. So if you say about my colleagues with the same arrange with the same, for example, we are colleagues at same level. But if you say about director directors, we wanted it is as hierarchical structure. Now it is more where I'm working. It is a startup where people do different things. We don't, we didn't have much amount of people. We tried to have this functional division.
Q: OK.
A: Yeah, alright, alright.
Q: So I may want to know again, is there anything that you dislike about your job?
A: Yeah, I must say about salary. Not salary, but but now current job, what they have, they give me salary money only after for example, in the end of month he discussed what I did, what tasks I what, what tax completely. And at least we calculate salary. It is not that I have some amount salary. What I have every month is it is I can't say about will I work with in the next month. It is very hard to has it to. I don't analyze what I will do in nearest future. I have no stability in short.
Q: Oh, OK, so so this kind of system, you don't you don't really like it.
A: Yeah. I have no stability because in some moment we may say that you, we have no, we have no work to you. So you may not work.
Q: Alright, so actually with all this ups and down, what actually motivates you to wake?
A: Yes, if you say about maturation it is also in my opinion. I guess what about my skills, but I I may see something new. I also also but yes, I may, I may say, but I may, but I may just find something also but I may be opened to different projects, moral projects, but sometimes I may do very interesting project.
Q: Yeah.  That's, that's good. That's.
A: Good, but you may ask at any time when you didn't clearly understand what they said.
Q: Yeah, yeah. That's fine. Yeah, Yeah, I understand. So I want to know again if if you are planning on maybe some vacation, you want to go on a vacation with your family, your friends, your loved one, how would you want it to be like? How is your ideal knowledge about vacation?
A: Yes.
Q: How do you want? How do you intend to plan it? How do you want it to look like?
A: Yeah, yes. If say about vacations for me, I for me it is very, very good. But I know that in this time I may be free from different, but I may prefer from job really but I may freely go to my vacations and yes and provide time be whom I wanted. Also for me during vacations is very important, but people with whom I have these vacations are also satisfied and also I like to have to rest something calm. Maybe you may ask if you want more.
Q: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I also want to know from your view, how do you go about your decision making in your company. And I don't know for if you also have a you do you do make some personal decision making like how do you decide on a particular task? So how do you come up with decision concerning your work that you do?
A: We have yes. I will say that in my company what I have now is working. We have our group of people. So how to say they give us task, they give service various person as project manager, project manager give ask the tasks and we may decide who may do with tasks now, who may do with clients. I'm working now with clients. But yes, I'm something else, provide my HR help. It is very interesting also for me. And I just said by myself, what with whom I want to work now with what partner. And also I may decide they give me. They give me, for example, some plan for day, some plan for a week, what I should do. I may do it in any time what I want do, but I should do it if I want money. So. But I may divide my time how I want during the day. That's so, yeah.   If you said that in short, I may provide my time, time management by my own. Yes, company is interested in results. For example, they say about tasks per day. I, we, we are not very interested when I will do it during the day, maybe in night, maybe in the beginning of the day. But I should do that if I want to have salad.
Q: OK. So in your view, what do you think should be the right way for your company to make a decision? Is it that the people also come to the board and decide on the matter or you want to leave it for the top managers to make those decisions? What is the right way to go about it?
A: In my opinion it is with every situation. What you describe now with top manager or workers may decide about decisions. All these methods of management may be very very good. It's more from my opinion depends on aims and also situation on it is very little in my opinion. Some sometimes we should with hierarchical structure when director says and all people do what director says. But sometimes we should be as functional divisions where every people are working on their own anonymous that we sometimes it's because if you say about director, who may say it may be this very, very long time to to wait him in some. For example, if you are, if you are working as fireman, for example, you can't wait any order from your director, from your captain, for example. You should provide your decisions on your own.
Q: Oh, OK, OK, alright. So I also want to know, I know for reasons where I am coming from Africa, sometimes when you get a job, you'd be on probation. You understand, you'll be on probation maybe for three months before they will permanently employ you. You understand, maybe they want to look at how you, you, you, you, how you perform at the workplace, how you're able to achieve organizational results. So I want to know in your opinion how did you pass your probation?
A: I say yes, I had bad experience, I had good experience.  I may say that sometimes I went to work to and the people and I understand that it is very hard for me to work with colleagues with people, maybe sometimes with. I have no abilities. Yeah. And I'm to answer this question, You may ask me questions about. I may only say that what I understand, but it is very good to understand how to say, but people may be. So you should easily understand stage. Yeah. But you may correct me so I didn't. I can't say maybe.
Q: OK, I understand. I understand your point of view, so I want to do in general. Do you have anything, any book that you read to expand your knowledge about what you do at work?
A: Yeah.
Q: OK. You have you read a couple of books, right? Yeah. Is there any recommendation for somebody that wants to follow your steps?
A: If you say about books, I will say that I like to read one second many works from I will say no really what help me maybe some really. I really like many books linked with theory.  It is very interesting to to to read 1 because I may provide something special, but I I don't know what it one second. I I really like the philosopher's.
Q: Books. OK.
A: Maybe I like Foucault, really. He really helped me about yes of to understand point of view sometimes.
Q: OK.  OK. All right. So I really appreciate you for your time and your space given to me to have this interview.
A: Too. Thank you. Yeah, I appreciate it. Yeah.
Q: Thank you so much.
A: Yeah. Thank you.
