Q: Hello. Good evening. Um, my name is Razia Sadid. Now I am, master student of, HSE University in the field of international business in the Asian Pacific region. I want to know about you. Would you please, introduce yourself and in which company you are working?
A: Thank you very much, Razia. Uh, good evening. Nice to meet you. Uh, I'm Muammed. Uh, I'm from Bangladesh. I'm doing my masters in data analytics for business and
Economics. Mm-hmm affirmative. Here in Agency. This is my second year. at the same time, I am working at a Russian manufacturing company named Veja. And, I’m working here as an, international procurement specialist here. My main task is to deal with the international suppliers spec specifically, uh, to conduct market research and find new suppliers from India, China, and Brazil, in order to replace the, present European suppliers, to avoid the future risk of, closing of supplies, from the supplier side due to the sanctions.
Q: Thank you. Agreed. thank you for, accept my request for have an interview about Culture code Project. Actually, the culture code refers to several related to concept about a seed of share reduction expectations and convention specific to given area of culture, as you know. I want to ask you some question that it is related to your companies and your experience. And the first question it'll be, how do you define success in your role? It means, how do you understand that the job is being done well in your company by you?
A: Well, good question. basically, I'm enjoying my work and I believe that I can, contribute, something valuable, in my position because they, you know, that it is a little bit difficult to find such kind of job here in Russia due to the language barrier. Yeah. But, for my position, they require both English and Russian, but also, they considered me as a non-Russian speaker, just to deal with the international market in order to get some, good output. Their expectation is that I will be able, able to develop a good software base for them. Therefore, I’m also working in an in accordance and, I’m utilizing my previous skills and experiences because back to my country, I also work as import important analyst, where I had to deal with Indian Chinese market. But yes, Brazilian market is a little bit newer for me. It is, also interesting for me because I can learn this market newly, but it is very easier for me to communicate with the Indian and Chinese suppliers.
Q: Yeah. That's great. And what factors do you consider being, making a decision at work? It means, what is the right way to make a decision in your company?
A: Okay. first of all, I'm given some general instruction in some such cases, what should I do? And I'm always closely working with my immediate supervisor as well as the departmental head, with the director of imports.
Q: Yeah. Great.
A: And I give some sort of power to make my own decision. so, when any critical issues arose, then I can take my own decision. And if I think that it is need to discuss with my supervisor, then I can discuss them. And I know that now I have that confident that when I'll discuss something, they will accept my recommendations. Mm.
Q: Great.
A: That is a great honor for me
Q: Yeah. Can you describe any situation where you had to make a difficult decision in your company?
A: Well, they basically employed, to deal with the Indian suppliers. And their expectation was that I will come with some big Indian suppliers, but my, analysis assessment, make them disappointed. Because, according to from a research I could find that India itself is an importer of that particular good. They imported from China. And, but there are some big resellers in India who acts, like they are manufacturer. they were trying to, take money from, our company where our company can buy these import the same goods from China at half price. So the rest of the half price, already went to India before my joining . And they do not understand the Indian culture because I'm from Bangladesh, which is very close to Indian culture, and I know the Indian language. So, and I also dealed with Indian suppliers before. So it was very easy for me to get the actual information from Indian market Yeah. That I did, in two days , that they could not do in the last five years.
Q: Wow. Interesting. Yeah. what is your ideal work environment look like?
A: The environment is very, very friendly. I do not want to leave my job, my supervisor, my teammates, my director, we all sit at the same table when we work from the office. Nice. I have great opportunity to work from home, probably once or twice in a month we can meet. A month I have to visit the office when the director and my supervisor all come, just for enjoying and for some important meetings. That's it. But we basically can work from home and we collaborate, every time, everything so that I can easily discuss any matter with them. Yes. the most interesting thing is when the first time I identified this problem, issue, then I first shared with my supervisor. She was a little bit scared because those Indian suppliers actually resellers were recommended by the director himself. So she was scared how she, she will share my findings. Yeah. Then I did not care about her, rather, I directly discussed with my director. he was disappointed, but he appreciated. And then he requested me, to find about the other suppliers. Those are recommended by another Indian supplier. And it was very easier for me. And I gave him the output, similar output within some few days. Oh, nice. And it was a great challenging, but, and after that, everything was, easier for me. Now I can do everything, anytime. No problem.
Q: Okay, great. Uh, if you could design the perfect team for a project, what qualities would your ideal team members, what kind of team members you want? Prefer,
A: Well, first of all, I will suggest someone who is friendly. Who has a positive attitude. Not any negative attitude, because I work in several places when in my country, some places are very friendly, everyone is very cooperative, and some places are very toxic because they're not fair. Rather, they always try to find some negativity of their coworkers. So I need someone open-minded people who also have some sort of analytical ability, some better understanding, because in this position, we need someone who has better understanding and also some sort of analytical ability, rather the rest of the things we, our team is able to develop.
Q: Nice. how would you describe your company's mission and value in your own words?
A: Well, if you look at international companies other than universities you'll probably rarely find any companies operating for more than a hundred years experience , probably it is the only one company, international company you can say, which is operating for close to a hundred years, not a hundred years. But in Russia, you'll find lots of companies are operating for more than a hundred years. For 200 years, 300 years. Our company age is more than 150 years. So, which is rare case. Why? Because of their loyalty to their employees, loyal to their customers, their good working environment. So that helps the company to sustain, and I hope they will sustain even more.
Q: Yeah Right. what are some challenges in your company, that face and, how do you think that could be addressed?
A: first challenge is the language. they’re trying to find to make a new policy for non Russian speakers, but they could not set it yet. Therefore, they could not make me permanent, but just, just renewing my contract. So anytime my contract may terminate, so this is the main risk for me. Yeah. as a non-Russian speaker if it is company-wide, then I would say that the sanction is a great risk for a company because our company needs some, some typically, specific, materials that for what our company is. almost a hundred percent dependent on the European countries. so, our company is trying to find alternative sources from India, China, whereas China is also at risk of sanctions, upcoming sanctions. Yeah. So, in that case, my company also asked me, because they value to everyone, they take recommendation from everyone, what can I do? Because they know that previously I worked with, Danish, where I had to deal with the market system. So I gave them some important, recommendations regarding the market system to change, and they well appreciated it. And they, note them down. And it is now on the table of the higher-level committee.
Q: Great. can you share any experience with collaboration with others led to a better outcome than working independent?
A: I think independently works, but I think hybrid works better because, probably for me, independent working. But for some other employees, independence may not work. They may concentrate on other things. Uh, in that case, company will not be able to get the exact output from that employee. And, according to law, the company can't instantly change this, change this employee and there are some legal consequences. So I prefer the hybrid system. I mean 50% independence and 50% collaboration. Collaboration.
Q: Okay. if given the opportunity, what advice would you give to someone starting in your position?
A: Starting in my position?
Q: Yeah. Someone if come to start in your position, what advice you have.
A: Well, in that case, I'll suggest him or her. If he, he or she's an international student, if Russian, then it's okay. But, Russians have, weaknesses in English language. So for Russians,
my advice is to improve their English language. And, for international students advice to know Russian language.
Q: Okay.
A: Because there joined several students as an intern. all of them are Russian and I am the international, all of them have been permanent contracts . But I I'm not being permanent, rather, my contract is renewed every time. Yeah. Every three months. which is actually risky for the future?
Q: Yeah. Right. Um, in what ways do you think culture difference impact teamwork and communication within your organization? how I see it. Culture differences will impact teamwork and communication within your organization.
A: Cultural difference from my country and here or from other
Q: I mean can you say that the culture difference will impact the team working in your organization?
A: Well, it depends on, first of all, I think this is the only company, Russian company where I'm working. I have no idea about the other companies
Q: As there is a different culture Yeah.
A: You. Yes. Because some of my friends also are Russian friends are also working Some of them have very good remarks about their company. Some of them have very bad remarks about their company because they are complaining about their toxic culture. So it depends on, I said, but the thing is how companies are managing this environment because to get proper output from a motivated employee, the motivation is the emergency. And motivation grows from several things, from salary, from work culture.
Q: Okay. You mean the culture differences? It is not a big challenge. It is different on position and salary?
A: yes. culture is one of the part but there are some other important factors. I
mean the people who will work in a company, it has one aspect in terms of customer branding, it has
another aspect,
Q: Okay. For last question I want to ask, how do you prefer to receive feedback in your work, and why it is important for you?
A: Well, it is, it is most important for me because it helps me, as you, you know, that I'm given lots of independence. So, if I consider it negative for me, then the negativity is only that I get very rare chance to receive feedback from my supervisor. So here I only receive my feedback based on the surveys forms that we need to fulfill. in every month and in every three month we receive our, uh, updates. So, it is a great opportunity to improve and I can see where I have poor mark where I can improve. I still have to improve. It helps a lot to improve my quality, my skills and everything. 
Q: Okay great. Thank you for your time and you shared a nice information. It is very useful. Thank you.
A: Thank you very much.