
Q: Hello, this is interview number one.
A: Hello. Can you hear me?
Q: Yes, great. Thank you for your agreement to answer some questions for our interview. It will be used for research purposes. Are you currently working?
A: Yeah, I'm working. I actually started to work several weeks ago.
Q: Great. So, what makes you excited about coming to work?
A: I suppose the main thing is a new experience. I'm just very excited about new things and work. New tasks, new projects, I have an opportunity to solve some new challenges I faced. And of course, I was very excited to meet new people at this place of work.
Q: Very good. And what motivates you to do your best at work?
A: I suppose that the main key thing is transparency of work process. I'm not sure how it's called, but I will explain it to you. I just can seek and observe my part in the whole project, like my part of responsibilities I had to do to achieve the whole success, the whole task and that makes me feel that I don't want to let my colleagues down and that motivates me to do my work best.
Q: And what is your role?
A: I'm not sure what do you mean about this question… my role. Do you mean like my role at the workplace? Yeah, I mostly like analytic of data. I just had to analyze a lot of separate pieces of information and combine them in some reports, in Excel tables and present them to my colleagues.
Q: And what most appeals to you about this role?
A: Frankly speaking, the most appealing thing is that it's not me who takes responsibility of the main decisions of this, I don't know, the main direction of the company. I mean, when we are doing the project, we have in our command quite a strict hierarchy. And I suppose I'm just in the lowest part of this, because I'm a newcomer. That's why I only prepare some materials, observe some databases and still it's not me who's taking really key decisions which can be really important and stressful. So I'm now kind of a chilling guy.
Q: And how do you think, this role will change you?
A: I suppose it will help me to improve my analytical skills. I mean, during my master's degree I've got some theoretical knowledge about this, but I've never applied it to a real case. And now I have an opportunity, so I'm quite happy with it.
Q: How does a successful company culture look like to you?
A: I suppose it's really difficult for the company to achieve successful culture, company culture, because it's a kind of balance between some empathy relation between colleagues and, on the other hand, some strict understanding of your responsibilities and your role in the company, what you are doing and what you just not to feel too warm in your relations with colleagues. So, understanding that you are at work and you are doing some functions.
Q: What surprised people about you?
A: Actually, I'm not sure how I should answer this question, because probably you have to ask other people rather than me. In me nothing surprises me.
Q: Okay, what do you like the most or the least about your last company or the company where you are currently working?
A: Actually I can name a schedule of working. I suppose it's my first time when I work in a strict schedule company, we really work from 9 a.m. Till 6 p.m. And I get really tired after work when I come home, it's quite exhausting to work all the day, all the day in one like building, in one office. I'm not really get used to this still.
Q: And what is the best thing about the company? The thing you like the most.
A: Yeah, that's company related to international relations and my bachelor’s degree is about international relations so I'm really happy to see the connections with my primary education like my first education and what I really do now, like it was not useless for me to.
Q: How have you changed over the last five years?
A: Actually, I think that I have become a bit more disciplined. I really try to get some useful habits to set up my routine, like morning or some good habits for health, for, I don't know, studying and repetition.
The same things from day to day have made me disciplined.
Q: What has been the most valuable lesson of your professional career?
A: Actually, continuing the last answer, it would be logical to say that it's important to do some small things every day to achieve the success. But actually, my real professional career and the process of getting my job position or what I'm doing right now is sometimes you need to be just in right place in right time and follow the chance if you really don't mind and if you don't have some strict goals something will work out in the end.
Q: Describe a time when you exceeded people's expectations.
A: Okay, actually, I suppose it's also connected with my professional work, professional position, because when I came first time in the company I'm currently working at, I was judged not as like data analytics or something like this. I came there with another major in university and my future boss wasn't expecting me to have some more skills than it should be according to my first major. But then they discovered that I'm a bit more skilled than they really expected. And that's why I suppose I'm useful for them.
Q: Very good. If you were going to start your own business, what would it be?
A: Actually, when I was in the first year of my Bachelor's degree, I was thinking about opening a kind of bar with my friend, but I'm not really sure that it's a really good idea in the current situation with some, like, business in a food area. But still, probably someday, maybe.
Q: What are your plans for the next five years?
A: Definitely not to open a bar, I suppose. Just working and probably getting PhD like continuing my education but I'm not really sure if it's going to be like one year or maybe two years like in five years probably.
Q: And what are your plans for the next five years in work?
A: I don't really know actually because I really don't have some goals or plans  coming to the top place when I'm working at now. That's why I can't clearly see my future plans. I just know that I suppose in a year I will change the company but I'm still not sure if I will change the whole direction I'm working at. If I want to, maybe like find out for me new profession I will still keep the same direction. I'm not really sure about it.
Q: What things do you need to do to succeed in your current position?
A: Be distant and responsible, and quite careful with details. But it's only about my position now. I'm not sure what qualities will be expected from me if I will move to higher positions, kind like to continue my career path.
Q: What blogs or websites do you visit regularly?
A: Ironically, but some YouTube videos of school students who are showing how to use Excel and how I should correctly formulate the formulas to set up filters in the file.
Q: What role does kindness, empathy, humor play at work?
A: I suppose all of you mentioned before kindness, empathy and humor, all of them creates a good microclimate in the department. That's really nice that I have all these characteristics in my own department and as a newcomer I feel quite comfortable with people I communicating now. 
Q: Okay, thank you. How do you prefer to communicate with your colleagues? 
A: The best way for me is communicating during some small breaks with a cup of tea and sweets or cakes. The most pleasurable time. 
Q: How do you respond to critics? 
A: I'm quite sensitive to critics, frankly speaking. That's why when I got some comments from my senior colleagues, I just try to keep calm and memorize all they mentioned, making some notes and if it's possible for me to change I will change but i'm not really sure that I will consider all the comments. I try not to give some strict comments myself because I suppose my position in the company is quite low, I just can give some suggesting to improve something, especially in my area, I mean some analytics of data, I can suggest about performing of information, like presentation and so on. Or discuss some sources to get some data for analysis and so on. But it's not really critical because all the work I will discuss, I will do personally, so like it's suggesting for myself. 
Q: And what three words would your colleagues use to describe you?
A: First, I've heard that I'm quite responsible and despite my job interview was not really successful. My senior colleagues told me that they got me to work because of some analytical skills I have, hard skills are important.
Three words. Responsible, analytical thinking and I don't know, hard-working, for example.
Q: Would you rather work alone or with a team? 
A: It depends on the type of task. If a task requires some creativity, it's of course much better to do it in a format of brainstorming or generating ideas with the whole team, but when the task is about detailed information or just data analysis, it's much convenient for me to do it alone just avoid some mistakes.
Q: How do you manage conflicts with co-workers?
A: I really don't have many conflicts with co-workers now. Because of the huge age gap between me and my co-workers it's difficult for me to clearly communicate with them, that's why I probably would like to run away from the conflict.
Q: What superpower will you bring to your company?
A: I suppose the power of new technologies.
Q: What management style motivates you to do your work the best? 
A: Actually, despite everyone believes that it isn’t bad for them to have some soft style manager, I personally prefer to work with some strict and maybe sometimes tough manager because they articulate their requirements quite clear. You understand what you have to do real and what they want from you.
Q: What advice would you give to someone starting out in your career?
A: Can I ask a question? What means starting out? 
Q: Well, someone who starts working where you work. 
A: I’m not sure.  Actually to be patient and not be afraid of some small challenges or like cringy moments, they will be anyway.
Q: Okay, when was the last time you took professional risks on yourself? 
A: Yesterday, when I threw an unfinished table.
Q: How does your decision-making process look like?
A: How does my decision-making process look like?  As for my personal decision-making process, it's like a small thought analysis in my head. I mean, comparing some advantages and disadvantages and based on them I just can get some decisions. 
Q: How do you stay organized? 
A: With the help of discipline. 
Q: Would you describe yourself as an introvert or extrovert and why? 
A: Actually, It depends on people I communicate with, but now I'm mainly introvert because I faced with a lot of new things in my daily life, like communication with new people and doing some new tasks which I'm not familiar with. That's why, that all makes me a bit more shy and confused. 
Q: Thank you for your interview. 






