Q: Hello, good evening. I am Razia Sadid. I am a second-year master student of International Business in the APR at HSE University. today I want to have an interview with you, thank you for giving your time for me to have this interview and it will be very valuable for us, for our project. first, I will talk about the purpose of this interview. We are looking for the environment and culture of Russian companies and what the decision-making will be here, and this interview will take time 30 minutes if it is more than 30 minutes also it is okay because it is open-ended questions as much as you want to give details I will be happy and I am interested.  I want to hear about you just introduce yourself and talk about yourself your background shortly it will be good. 
A: Okay my name is Asma and I am an international student in HSE. I'm doing my master's here in Arts and Culture Management. I'm from Pakistan and apart from my studies I work here in a Russian company which provides services in Fintech so it's been more than one year that I have worked in this company. Yes.
Q: It's great thank you. First, I want to ask as everything start with motivation. I want to know about what motivated you to work in this company and what is inside of this company that you are trying to be best and work there?
A: For me I was new here in St. Petersburg I didn't know anything about the Russian corporate culture and I applied on many jobs and luckily, I got this job in this company which is called call solution and to my surprise the environment and the support from the company and also from the government in terms of the corporate laws or maybe the sickly laws or health issues laws regarding the jobs. So the all of these things motivated me to keep going with this job and also with the job the work like balances also really good. So that was the only reason that I did not thought to change my job from this job to another job and that's why I have been doing it. 
Q: Because it is stable. 
A: Yeah because it is stable and the environment which was giving to me was really really good in comparison to Pakistan. So, the teams, everybody was supportive at work. So I really like that and also I like the legal laws regarding the labor work which are Russian laws. So for me that was the motivation to keep going for this job.
Q: Okay it's great. Can you tell me how do you know when you've succeeded in your role? or when you feel something that it will succeed you in your job? 
A: With my job yes I was working as a support agent initially for seven or eight months and I was the lucky one and maybe it was my success that I in a short period of time I moved from one department to another department. Now I work in KYC which is which is more interesting than support personally for me. So this is the success I believe that I have achieved and everybody in the office really praised me that you are the like first one to get the promotion very early in the job within the year. So yes and I was warmly very welcomed by the KYC department as well. So that was my mini success in this office. 
Q: Can you say that it is your ideal job or you have any ideal job?
A: In my situation right now as a student as well this job is a perfect match so I am able to you know balance my studies and job along. Yes, I have more future I would say desires to grow better on this position because as a human you know always want to grow. So, this is I would not say this is the ideal situation where I have to be here all the time. No, I really want to grow. but for this time like for current situation yes it is perfect an ideal for me.
Q: It is great, I want to know how you can describe your environment and the cultural environment inside of your company.
A: Yes, okay in my company there are many people who are not native Russians. They are from different part of the world. Some are from Indonesia some are from India some are from Spain. So there are many nationalities within the company and since even majority of people in the company speak Russian but when they are talking to us they especially you know start speaking in English so that we can understand. So, this environment is like more welcoming more comforting that they do not completely neglect you even in meetings they really try to they speak in Russian first and then they translate it. So, I really like there is this supportive environment and also, they since every corporate companies have events and they also celebrate our event for example recently we have Eid and they had some small party for the Eid or some other cultural events they also celebrate. So, they don't keep their employees as excluded but they get along them as inclusive they hear especially like they always you know hear everyone's problem they will not say that if you do not have problem and you are keep quiet you are doing work they will always come you your supervisor will come to you and ask you if there is anything he can help you with but even your colleagues who are very welcome and very supportive they also will come and ask you if you need help or something. So, I'm speaking too much but yes, it’s really supportive environment I believe that without the support that the Russian people and the Russian culture corporate environment has given us is admirable really, they this is really coll. 
Q: Okay it's great yeah and about collaboration you talked how is the collaboration in inside of your company and if you need some help or if you want to collaborate with other different international employees how you can collaborate with them how you can involve?
A: With other company? 
Q: No inside of your company with your colleagues.
A: I mean it's been quite more than a year for me they are like my another family I talked to them like there is one girl from Argentina her name is Shostash she always you know come cross and welcomes me and there is a one Shusha she hugs me every time so when we don't usually have any particular task for the company together but whenever we cross each other they warmly welcome they talk to me friendly so apart from unofficial collaborations there are no company related collaboration within the employees but yes when it comes to task which we perform on daily basis so these tasks are assigned in a way that everybody does the job perfectly and also their report in English so for us it's not a problem that we need to ask them again and again because everybody does their job perfectly and if they're doing their job it helps us to do our job as well so that is the collaboration.
Q: you want to add something I think?
A: I don't know it answered the question you have asked, but recently I asked my company to arrange an internship in the even management department for my degree course it was like they were so kind and they were so supportive that they made this collaboration with university and company and designed an internship for me for the event management department and that's where I think I should appreciate them that they agree to collaborate with university and with the company so there's a opportunity was a good collaboration within the company. 
Q: Yeah of course it is, and what do you think about this job how it will affect your personal growth? 
A: Since yes, this job is comforting easy and interesting as well but there is also one I would say a negative point that it is like in this job I am doing same task again, and again like every one second minute I'm doing the same task so in that terms I do not see that this particular position will give me more knowledge or will give me more growth but company always provide other job opportunities to apply and to grow for that we individually have to improve our skills apart from company support so particularly on this job we have option to become senior and then lead and then manager but at knowledge terms I don't think so this particular position gives me so much knowledge.
Q: Yeah, do you think sometime you hate your job?
A: No, I don't hate my job to be honest, I would again appreciate the environment is so friendly so good so comforting so calm and so supportive even if you are sick they will consider you they will not force you to work extra hour or even you are sick they will ask you to just go home and sit and they will do all the stuff of like documentation stuff for the leave so I have never hated my job I enjoyed it, yes some shifts are so early that at some times I'm tired or I'm sleepy apart from that I don't hate my job I'm comfortable at this job.
Q: Yeah can you talk about previously also maybe you have a job in your country yes? and what is difference is between these environments?
A: That's a huge difference in what you feel now I like my country I was working also as a support agent and I was under so much pressure we worked mine our straight without a single break they used to give us like half an hour break for just eating no washroom, even if  you are on a verge of just break, it down emotionally physically you want to go to washroom but  the supervisor will not allow you to go to washroom so the environment was not supportive at all they just wanted a employees to work like I don't know…. I just don't want to use that word….. they just want employees to work all the day without breaks. Pakistan where I worked before it was not a good environment the payment was not good and the behavior was not also good from the management side like they can insult you anytime but here in Russia nobody insults no one even if you are on a higher level they will come and talk to you as if you are on same level they respect you equally without any discrimination they don't discriminate but in Pakistan there is a lot of discrimination there is a lot of at least the company I worked I begs it was not a good experience it was a worst experience, here it is much better.
Q: Can you add about the gender equality or gender discrimination there?
A: In Pakistan they always wanted boys to be the higher position because all the managers were boys all the trainers were boys and men, it was all Pakistan is already a male dominant society so they never appreciated any task performed by girls even if they are doing good in ranks they will not say good representation really, they would appreciate but the preferences are always to the boys it was a huge difference. It was a huge difference even that company is not like a small company in Pakistan it's such a big company it’s in a major city in the middle of the city the Iberks and it's in Karachi so it's a huge company but the environment was a worst and I was totally shocked when I see the environment here in St. Petersburg so that's a huge difference.
Q: Yeah, and can you talk about the decision making in your company and if I say as example are you involving in, everyone in work or it is related only to managers how is this?
A: It depends in my company it depends on what position you are so in my position I do not have such powers to make any decision I have powers to make small decision for the customers, for big decision there are other people so the having a decision-making power comes with a responsibility, so within my job I have certain decision-maker power which I can make decision regarding the customers only but big decision for the companies are always taken by management.
Q: Okay and what is the challenges and you feel inside of this environment?
A: I believe languages barrier, although they do speak in English they converse many times with us in English but when you are in a certain environment where rest of people are speaking Russian and you don't understand so you feel isolated many times that okay whatever is happening at the back you don't understand anything until you go and ask so this is the challenge, and also I believe at certain point that  they might not give any foreigner a highest position they will give you like senior level then they will not give you a top management level position to the foreigners so this is the difference, although I have not applied neither I'm interested but for other people which are like from foreign and they are not Russian I've seen that they face a struggle and they have to be very careful about anything they do,
Q: If there is any rule or law about it?
A: It is not rule, it is just if they apply they might consider it, but you know it is my opinion, that you know there are something you learn from the environment yeah then those things are not on the pages and not in the rules but you just learn from one to one conversation.
Q: Can you say or share to me what achievement you have in this job that you proud of?
A: I am proud that I got this opportunity very early since I came back here and performed it very well, on a customer agent job and then I shifted to another department and within like two weeks although the training periods are always three months but I learned everything within two weeks and you know I was able to perform on a same level where other employees were working like they have been working in two to three years and I came to that position within two weeks so, it was achievement for me and I was really proud on myself my numbers my performance number my QA scores everything improved and I became comfortable then also I am proud that I was mingled with the whole team soon like quickly I didn't have a problem with communicating anyone and I had a good relationship with my TL as well, so because of their good relationship also because of a TL relationship I was able to perform well because of his support as well so these are something which I am proud of.
Q: Yeah, it's great, so it is about the ending of questions I will not have any question but I want to ask you if you have more insight you want to talk about your environment and the differences within this country and your countries. 
A: My country needs a lot to improve in the corporate culture they have to work on their systematic way how they run the companies, and for Russian this company and they have good rules they have good environment but they should also consider like for a better positions as well because since they have this ability to perform on the higher level as well so for Russian company this is the only suggestion that I would like to give that they must consider foreign people on a top level as well when they are capable to perform like when they deserve it, and for Pakistanis they have a lot to learn.
Q: Yes, okay this is great. and I think our interview is finished and thank you so much I am really thankful from your time and it will help us and will improve our project if you have some question?
A: I don't have any questions but thank you so much for having me and good luck thank you.

